ADVICE FOR NEW PLAYERS

Last updated: 20190630

If you're new to Omaha, here's some suggestions to help you in
your first few sessions. As you get more experienced you'll
adopt the same habits as the regulars but when you're starting
out there's some things you should keep in mind to avoid
costly beginner's mistakes

Prevent exposure of your holding
--------------------------------

In Holdem you soon learn to lift the corners of your two hole cards
and remember them for the rest of the hand. You're playing 
King-Ten of Diamonds or Ace-Nine offsuit or Pocket Tens. 
In Omaha you've got Four cards to handle and it's harder to 
squeeze them and see the cards in your
holding. You can't hold the cards in the air 20 centimetres in front
of your face where everyone on your side of the table can see them.
Be conscious more than usual that you're not accidentally flashing
your holding to other players.

I like to arrange my holding so it runs high card to low cards,
left to right. If I'm dealt 5sKs7J I'll rearrange the cards so
when I look at them they say KsJ75s.

Don't rush
----------

You've got a lot of Holdem experience but little Omaha experience.
This is a dangerous combination. You can act fast, because you're used
to the button and knowing when it's your time to act; but you should take
extra time over your decisions and not let yourself be rushed by the
other players and the general speed of the table. Don't be afraid of
taking your time and making the best decisions you can. The other
players can see you're a beginner anyhow; playing as fast as you can
to try to look like one of the gang is a very bad idea indeed.

Re-check your holding
---------------------

It's hard to remember your 4-card holding during a hand, normally
you remember what you hope to hit. With KsJ75s I remember
"King-Jack, King high in spades". I haven't remembered well the
ranks of the 7 and the 5. If a Dope Flop like T66 comes, I'll
recheck my holding to see if I have a 6. Preflop I was hoping for 
Broadway action or KJ two pair or some spade flush action but
now that the flop is T66 I'll recheck my cards and hope to see a Six.

Limp Preflop
------------

If you're a Holdemite you might be a fan of the theory that
you always come in for a raise, or fold. In Omaha, limping
preflop is very much an option.

Know the Full-Bet Rule
----------------------

Knowing the Full-Bet rule is crucial in Omaha. Make sure
you understand it.

Don't be afraid of showing a losing hand at showdown
----------------------------------------------------

If you've got any kind of doubt in a Showdown, table your hand.
Once your hand is tabled, Cards Speak and the Dealer and other
players will help identify your best hand. The worst sin in poker
is to fold a hand at showdown that was the winner or would have
split the pot.

Showdown etiquette isn't great with some players and they'll
say "Straight" or "Flush" or otherwise miscall their hand in an
attempt to get you to fold a winner. The 2+3 Showdown Rule takes
a lot of getting used to, and since you're used to Holdem you'll
be seeing a lot of 1+4 winning hands that the "winner" shows you
that simply don't play in Omaha. Take a few seconds to make entirely
sure that the winner has the hand he says he has, under 2+3 rules,
and don't be afraid to table your hand if you're unsure.

Star don't award a pot until the losing player has surrendered his
card; even if the winner has shown an unbeatable nuts (top flush
on unpaired flush board with no straight flush possible, top full house
with blocker on paired board, like KK8x on a K8873 board, hands like
that.) You have the right to check to your full satisfaction that
the winner's hand is indeed the nuts that it looks like. And you can
still table your hand if you want.

Don't straddle
--------------

As a new player to Omaha, you'll want to play some hands and get
as much experience for the cost of your buyins as you can.
Straddling $6, paying twice as much in a terrible table position when
you haven't even seen your cards, goes against your Experience Goals.

Sometimes most players at the table are straddling and they'll put
you under verbal pressure to straddle also. Some regular sits down
at the table and after fifteen minutes he says "Let's all do a round
of straddles" and three other people pipe up and agree to it and
you're under a lot of pressure to take part in this "fun" activity.
Don't do it. Straddling won't make you one of the boys and it won't disguise
the fact you're new to Omaha.

Often the guy who proposed the round of straddling goes in a real huff when
his proposal doesn't get full table approval. I almost never agree to
a round of straddles. It is a lot of fun if everyone else at the table wants
to do it and I'm the last person to speak and I say "No".

Raise with the big straight draws
---------------------------------

Holdemites aren't used to the strength of big Omaha draws. If your
holding and the rainbow flop make a 5-card continuum, and you're above
the board, Jam it!

Avoid tricky play
-----------------

Remember that Omaha isn't a trapping game, and you need to Do Your
Own Betting. Sets get outdrawn all the time, you need to protect
them by betting the pot on the flop and later streets.

Leave if your stack gets big
----------------------------

It's a lot easier playing a $100 stack than it is playing a $400 stack.
Plays that are correct for the short stack are wrong for the bigger
stack. You need to walk before you can run, so master your short stack
play and then work towards bigger stack player later. A win of $200 or $300
should be enough to take at this stage of your Omaha evolution.

I myself will cash out a stack of $600 on my first buyin and will always
ask myself if a cashout is in order once my stack is $800 or more.
The more experience you get, the more comfortable you will be with
playing bigger stacks but with that much real money on offer on the
table it's well worth cashing out.

Know the Party Hands
--------------------

Make sure you've read and understood the chapter on Party Hands. This is
great Omaha knowledge that many regulars don't have. Just
knowing the Party Hands in advance puts you ahead of many of the
other players. You can make good money playing good Party Hands, even
as an Omaha beginner.

Don't draw to low flushes
-------------------------

One of the traps Omaha has for Holdemites is low flushes. In Holdem
a low flush using both of your hole cards is normally a winner, but in
Omaha it's usually a loser. If you've done the work in the Rainy Day
chapter you'll have a good appreciation of the fact that suited
cards as high as suited kings are often behind to the holdings of
other players who have suited Aces in the same suit. That's the
nature of the Top 40 Omaha deal and you don't really appreciate
it unless (a) you've done the Rainy Day Exercise or (b) you've
given your stack away to nut flushes time and time and time again.

You know from the Rainy Day Exercise that King-flush holdings
are often behind, so don't even draw to low flushes.

Look downstream for later player tells
--------------------------------------

Much more than in Holdem, Omaha pots are contested by three, four or more
players after the flop. There will be many occasions when you face
a bet and there's two or more players who will act after you in this
betting round.

It's well worthwhile having a quick peek at the later actors before
you make your decision. Is someone arranging chips for a $65 call?
Has someone lost interest and can't wait to fold? Is someone not
touching chips but looking very focussed and interested in the action?

You don't want to call a bet only to get a big raise from behind.
If you do get raised from behind you now face the Hobson's Choice
of forfeiting your chance at this pot or paying way too much
to see the next card. So have a quick look at the downstream players
and make a guess to yourself what they'll do when action is on them.

This is also a great habit preflop, where you want to have a
good idea how much it will cost you to see the flop. Sometimes
you'll call $3 or $10 and have to surrender to later reraises,
that's just the nature of PLO, but you don't want to call
$40 or more and still not get to see the flop for that price.
Preflop you have to take a second peek at earlier callers who
are still in the hand, and make a quick guess if they will re-raise
when action returns to them or just call. You won't always get
it right, but if you get yourself in the habit of looking,
you'll get it right more often.

Many players (including myself) count out the exact chips
for a call before the action is on them, providing a reliable tell for
observant players that they will be calling. I'll try and train
myself out of this habit so I don't give away this tell. I'm
a quick and accurate counter of chips so if I just wait my
turn I won't be slowing things down by waiting to get my
call chips until action is on me.
