ASPECTS OF YOUR HOLDING

You know that if your hand makes it to showdown you'll be using
exactly two of your cards, so preflop you can look at the six two-card
combinations of your holding and assess them as Holdem starting hands.

(1) FLOPPABILITY

When you hold Ah987h you have the six two-card hands: Ah7h (can make
the nut flush), A9 (good two pair), A8 (iffy two pair), 98 (connectors
for a straight), 97 (one gapper) and 87 (connectors).

Most of these combos are pretty good and the combined power of those
straight cards can give you some big straight wraps on the right flop.

This hand still needs to hit the right flop - all Omaha holdings do.
But there are a lot of flops that it will fit well with. The ability
of a holding to connect well with lots of different flops is an
aspect I call Floppability.

(2) NUTTABILITY

The next concept is Nuttability - the ability of your holding to make
the nuts, once all the cards are out. Because my hearts are Ah7h, the only
heart flush I can make is the Ace-high flush, which in the absense of
straight flush chances must be the nut flush. The straight cards 987
are less nutty; they are great on a flop of K65 but they are trouble
on an AJT flop; where they can't make a nut straight and a hand like
Q98 has it in serious trouble.

The higher the rank of your cards, the better your Nuttability is. When
you hold AAhKQh, the only set you can make is top set. The only flush you
can make is the nut flush. The only straights you can make are nut straights.
If you flop two pair, it must be top two-pair. When your hand has good
Nuttability; you can bet it strongly when you do connect with the flop,
and you often win the stacks from dominated hands that have also flopped
well but have lower rank and worse nuttability.

A holding such as QQ74 has bad floppability but good nuttability because
when it flops a set it's normally top set. The holding 6654 has much
more floppability (it likes a lot more flops than QQ74 does) but very
low nuttability. On a flop of Q65; the QQ74 has the 6654 smoked.

The two-card combination Jack-Ten has an interesting nuttability behaviour.
If you make a straight using both of these cards, that straight is always
the nut straight unless there's also a Jack or Ten on the board. Indeed
your Jack-Ten straight can only be outdrawn by higher straights if
a Jack or a Ten comes on the turn or the river.

Old time Manila players understand this instincitvely. JT suited is one of
the best Manila drawing hands.

There's debate in Omaha circles on whether the best holding is AAKK double
suited or AAJT double suited. AAKK is twice as likely to flop top set,
but AAJT flops a lot of straight draws, all of them nut. Both have the
same capacity to make nut flushes in two suits. Against a single opponent
I'd take AAKK, in a three-way-or-more pot I'd prefer AAJT. AAJT on a
KQx flop makes a draw I call "Broadway with the Nines" where if the
turn or river brings another Broadway card, or a Nine, you make the
Nut Straight. It's more outs than an open-ended straight draw (8) or
the three card inside wrap (9); in most cases it's a 13 out nut draw.
