BAD BEAT STORIES

Updated: 20180703

A really good Bad Beat Story should contain elements of the
following five factors:

(1) Truly boneheaded play by the winner. He tried an impossible
bluff, or made a no-chance call in the face of furious betting
action which must have told him he was losing, and somehow
got there.

(2) Long odds. The kind of odds that send you to your computer
and an Odds Calculator to see if you were 95.8% favourite or
98.6% favourite. Runner-runner flush, while sucking in Omaha
as much as it does in Holdem, isn't long odds enough for a
really good Bad Beat story in my opinion. Gutshot/gutshot straight is.

Hanging around with no draw and getting trips with a baby on
the river qualifies.

(3) High stakes. Late tournament bad beat stories are often best,
because the stakes are high with big prize differences between
first, second and third place. Though of course a bad beat in a
huge cash pot is crushing.

(4) The winner's holding is so outlandishly bad that you wouldn't
even complete the bet from the small blind preflop, let alone
compound the error with further boneheaded play in factor (1)

(5) The money piled in on the flop and the bad beat came 
runner-runner. One of my session report readers (a fine
player at the pub tournament level and online Omaha)
reports that "Runner-runner makes it funner".

and a couple of rare ones that can add to the Bad Beat:

(6) The winner tried to fold on the river but did expose his cards
enough to make them identifiable and cards speak and a winner was
found. You call for the camera and everyone waits for 15 minutes
but the decision goes against you.

(7) The river, which makes the enemies hand, is a Baby card and
seemingly a complete Brick.

(8) Your hand was so big you didn't fear the Nut hand moving to
a higher rung of the poker ladder.

So here's a few bad beat stories.

(A) First hand of a 10-player, $20 entry NLH Sit and Go, 2000 start stack.
Old timers might remember the "Pokerdome" venue at Newtown which ran these
games continuously; first prize $120, second prize $60, rake $20.
I've got AQ, raise the 50 blind to 200 and get two callers. The 
flop comes AQ5 rainbow. I check, A3 bets 300, K7 suited calls,
I checkraise all in and both call. K7 suited, with three to a flush,
is at an early stage of his poker career and thinks that runnner-runner
flush is a good draw in Holdem. The final board is AQ5KK and K7
triples up and this $20 Sit and Go has lasted me a single hand.

Comment: This bad-beat is low stakes but because I was a massive
favourite for a triple-up, and it was the very first hand of the sit-n-go,
I remember it well. The boneheaded call of K7 with three-to-a-flush
was memorable.

My craziest bad beat win was in Limit Holdem in Brisbane, where
I held 88 to a flop of ATT. It got checked around and the turn
was an 8. I got involved with a raising war with another player
who held AT. The river was also an 8, and having flopped
a great full house, and obviously not being up against AA,
the AT had been outdrawn by perfect-perfect Quads.
