BAD BEATS

Updated: 20180702

A lot of the bad beats in Omaha involve someone staying in a hand
with a beaten made hand and a non-nut draw (that will lose if it
hits) but somehow backfooring or flukeing a lucky winner in the runout.

I've been the beneficiary of plenty of these. I once had T865 on a flop
of AT6. I somehow thought my two pairs TT66 might be good, even in the
face of furious betting action on this flop. The two other players had
AA and TT, and the TT somehow found a fold. I didn't, but on the final 
runout of AT674 my 85 played to make the weirdest of straights. That's
a bad beat for the AA and a great fold by the TT. And a few hundred
dollars for the idiot who called all-in with bottom two pair that
was just about drawing dead against top set and middle set.

I've been one-outed a few times with top set against a lower set.
I've had AA on a flop of A94 and lost to 44 on the turn. While
writing this book I lost QQxy to Q99x on a flop of Q98, when the
9 came on the turn, this was still a good card for me because
the 99 Quad player won a decent main pot but I managed to recoup
my money in the side pot against a player who'd flopped a straight.
If the board hadn't paired, both me and the 99 player would've lost
to that straight, so even though the board pair made me lose a
main pot to Quads it was still a good card for me.

My craziest bad beat win was in Limit Holdem in Brisbane, where
I held 88 to a flop of ATT. It got checked around and the turn
was an 8. I got involved with a raising war with another player
who held AT. The river was also an 8, and having flopped
a great full house, and obviously not being up against AA,
the AT had been outdrawn by perfect-perfect Quads.

PLO Go Broke Flops
==================

In No Limit Holdem the main go-broke flop is set under set,
which happens about 1% of the time you flop bottom set and even less
when you flop middle set. With those kind of odds, you'll take your
chances against the enemy having a better set, and unless the stacks
are so deep that the betting goes bet/raise/raise/raise, you'll get
all-in. If you've got 66 and the flop comes AJ6, you can commit 
your stack and expect to be a massive favourite against AK.

Hands where you jam your stack in only to still lose
are called "Coolers". 

In PLO the Cooler flop is Top full house against flopped Quads!
I don't know the maths of this but obviously when
you flop the overfull you expect to be the winner. Just like in
the Holdem set-under-set case, you'll get your stack in and expect
to be the winner.

During the writing of this book I saw this go-broke cooler three times,
and the first time I was the beneficiary. I had 66xy on a T66 flop to
the enemy's TTxy. The other two situations (which both came in the
same four hour session!) were KKxy losing to 88xy on a K88 flop and
AAxy losing to JJ33 on an AJJ flop. The same player who lost AA on the
AJJ flop once lost an Omaha hand with a straight flush. He had 9c8cxy
on a final board with the Qc,Jc,Tc on it. Sure enough, the other player
had AcKcxy for the Royal Flush. Wow.

Holding the overfull is one of the few times in PLO
where you're justified in value raising on the river with a non-nut
hand, the overfull that is beaten by just one hand, Quads.
Most of the time the bettor has the second best full house
and is forced to call you. Taking that AJJ flop as an example, the
bettor on a final board of AJJT8 has AJ most of the time and loses 
JJJAA to your AAAJJ. Sometimes he's playing JT or J8 and is just
giving his money away. Raising to get value out of lower full houses
is the right play, even if three times a year you lose to Quads.
If you're not raising with the overfull, you're leaving too much
money on the table.
