BECOMING A BETTER POKER PLAYER

Last updated: 20180726

In my important "Leaving Decision" chapter I wrote about
your next 100 sessions, and the impact that losing less
on 30 losing sessions has on your bottom line.

At the end of those 100 sessions, you should also be
playing much better Omaha than you are today. You should
be minimising then removing bad habits and maximising
then cementing good habits.

Habits
======

Humans are creatures of habit and to change your habits
takes time. I once worked through an excellent IT book
on changing and improving your work habits. This book
said that it takes two weeks for your new habits to
finally kick in and become routine; for the first two
weeks you have to remind yourself to do the new
better behaviour.

I want you to get two pieces of writing paper and make
some lists. This exercise is really useful, just like
the Rainy Day Exercise. One piece of paper we will
label BAD HABITS and the other piece of paper GOOD HABITS.

Divide each page horizontally into 4 equal sections.
From top to bottom on the left side of each section
write these labels: NEVER, RARELY/SOMETIMES, OFTEN/USUALLY, ALWAYS.
These are increasing frequencies for your good habits
and your bad habits.

Put today's Month and Year on each page, don't worry
about the day. If you're doing this exercise on the first
few days of the month you can cheat a little and use
last Month. By the time you fill these two pages, you'll
have a review of your own game and where you're at right now.
By writing these things down on paper, you're thinking about
your game and thinking about what you're doing right and
what you're doing wrong.

I'll start the ball rolling, with some Bad Habits. I SOMETIMES
wander into the Casino after a function in the city, quite
tipsy and needing either a $70 taxi home afterwards or an
overnighter to a 0530 train. I OFTEN make losing crying
calls with two-pair hands against obviously better hands.

Put two entries into your BAD HABITS page now.

Before you get too hard on yourself, start writing some
entries in the GOOD HABITS page. These can be mirror images
of the BAD HABITS page, don't be afraid of duplication.
If I RARELY play a drunk post-function session, I OFTEN
play a session with my own transport and my own leaving time.

I NEVER get upset at a dealer for a bad runout. He doesn't
control the shuffling machine. I NEVER fold a winning hand at
showdown; I'm always very careful to check my holding.

Include anything you like that you think has a bearing on
your poker performance and your own life. Do you ever
cancel events with friends so you can play poker instead?
Do you let a bad day at the office become a bad night at poker?
Do you let a bad night at poker become a bad day at the office?

Once you've filled in both sheets, re-read them. Are they a
good picture of where your poker game is at right now? Great.
Thanks for your honesty. You'll profit from your honesty as
you improve your poker over time.

Here's some more of my bad habits. I sometimes call loose on
the flop, needing runner-runner and a turn that changes
everything. I Usually pay way too much money to stay in
a Horror Pot.

Poker Health Check
==================

I need a groovy name for this procedure so here it is:
Poker Health Check. You've just identified, in the Often and
Always sections of your Bad Habits page, some aspects of
your game to work on. You can improve your game immediately
by doing your bad habits less frequently and as you get good
at this you can remove them from your game altogether.
Another improvement is to take your good habits and do them
more often. Less of the bad, more of the good. Your game
is becoming better.

Every three months, re-do your poker health check. Keep your
previous health checks, and after you've done the new one,
get the last one out and compare the two. You'll see some nice
improvement in your game. Don't do poker health checks any
more regularly than three months. This is like checking the
oil in your car, you don't do it every time you fill up
but you should check it now and then.

Kaizen
======

Kaizen is the Japanese concept of continuous improvement.
A new book, The Kaizen of Poker by Sheree Bykofsky, applies
this idea to No Limit Holdem. Continuous Improvement is
a concept I also see a lot in my day job in computers,
a field which is always changing and requires people to
always be learning and always be on the lookout for new
ideas and ways of doing things. That sounds a lot like Poker
to me.
