BUTTON BET THE TURN

Last updated: 20181123

If you're on the Button and there's a small to moderate pot
by the turn and everyone has checked to you,
put in a bet, especially with OK-ish hands
you feel you'd call a river bet with. This bet serves a bunch of
useful purposes.

1) It can win you the pot outright. Especially in hands where
everyone has also checked the flop. A check on the flop is
sometimes a shoot for a check-raise, but if a player has
checked both the flop and the turn he's not building the pot
and has a small pot hand. Dan Harrington mentions this in
a Holdem context in FIXME(find the Harrington reference).

2) You'll annoy players hoping for a free river card. They'd
like one to see if they can spike a good two pair or trips
or a gutshot straight or a low flush but they don't want
to pay for the privelege. None of their draws are good enough
to bet themselves, so they'll take a free card and win this
small pot if they catch lucky. Your turn bet denies them
that chance and they'll give up on this nothing pot and fold.

3) It can buy you a cheaper showdown. Your turn bet means you're
now the betting leader, and often the other players will check
to you again on the river, afraid your hand is better than theirs.
This saves you money when you've got a calling hand that's a loser.
Yes you bet the turn and you lose that money, but if you'd checked
the turn you would've called a bigger amount on the river anyway.
The pot is $60, you bet $35 on the turn and check-behind and lose
on the river, you've lost $35. But if you'd checked the turn,
someone bets $50 on the river and you call, you lose $50.

So betting the turn in this case has saved you $15.

Now saving $10 and $15 here and there isn't the primary focus
of your PLO play, you're playing for stacks. But if you've got that
$15 more in your stack when you double up, you end up $30 better
off than if you didn't have that $15. The bigger your stack the better.

4) This bet also serves as a pot builder so if you spike a nut hand
you can sell it on the river for more money. Say you've got 5443
2 diamonds on a turnboard of AJ59 two diamonds. You've got three
nut out deuces and quite a few other cards that could be winners
as there's been little postflop betting in this hand. A four makes
you a probably-winning set, any diamond makes you a showdown-worthy
flush and even a repeat Five cound win.

If everyone checks to you again on the river, you can play poker
with this hand and consider if you can value bet a non-nut hand.
I'd probably check behind the tiny diamond flush,
value bet a set of 444 and even value bet the trip fives. If
I was nut with a river deuce I'd sell it for as much as I think anyone
would call; and the turn bet has built the pot so that I can sell it
for more.

Except when you're nut with a river two, you need to fold to a check-raise
on either the turn or the river.

5) As you've taken the betting lead, you can consider a bluff if
the river is a brick that doesn't complete any draws. On the AJ59
turnboard, a river card that's not a Broadway card or an 8 is a Brick.
Since you'd bet the turn it looks like you've got a good two pair hand
like AA99 so if the river is a A,9,7,6,5,4,3 or 2 you can value bet
or bluff.
