HORROR POTS

Last updated: 20180710

A Horror Pot is a big multiway pot of at least $400 where
you've got to pay over the odds to stay in to see the river,
but you feel like staying in. If you decide to fold
but the river brings your winning card, you'll be horrified
as you see this enormous pot pushed to somebody else and
you realise that if you'd bravely stayed in all that money
would now be yours.

The horror pot situation occurs on the Turn
and you have a strong sense that with so many players still in
the hand that
(a) if the Board doesn't pair, the lead will change and
(b) if you fold on the turn and discover in the runout that you
    would've won, you'll be crushed.

There's a human tendancy in relation to Poker called "Resulting".
If you make a decision and you win a pot you think you've played
great poker. If you make a decision and lose a pot you think
you've played bad poker. This is a mistake I'm prone to myself.
In a Horror Pot your correct decision on the Turn is often to fold,
but the pot is so big and alluring that you pay that big amount
to stay alive in this pot and see if the river wins it for you.

I've won more than my share of Horror Pots because I stay in them
more than most players. Normally I stay in with straight draws,
somethings as thin as a single gutshot straight draw; sometimes
a double gutshot, that I'm sure will be a winner if it hits.

It's up to you how you play the Horror Pots. Normally I get
sucked into them by overpaying preflop with an iffy holding
that flops enough straight action to call a pot sized bet
on the flop. The turn misses but doesn't pair or flush the board.
Now there's a much bigger bet to call if I want to see the river.
There's still a few players in this pot so the turn bet is much
larger than usual. The flop bet was $40 but got three callers
(building the pot from $40 to $200) and now the turn bet is $200.

Now I'm in the Horror Pot situation; this has become a huge pot
and the final pot will be so big that if I spike my winning
card I'll be stacking it for two minutes.
$200 to me, dealer? I call!!

NEEDLING

Last updated: 20180710

Needling is the social art of comments at the table.
It normally occurs after a hand and is said by disgruntled
losers to the winning player, criticising his or her play
of the hand. I'm frequently the target of needles.

Needles are the poker equivalent of sports sledges and
serve just about the same function. The king of
needling in professional poker right now is an
Englishman named Will Kassouf.

Shung Joe!
=========

If there's Asian players at the table, and especially
Aunties, the winner is often deried as a "Shung Joe".
This is Chinese for banana. I'm a bit sensitive to
being called a banana but I've got to toughen up and
put up with it. Poker's a tough game, a poker table
is a tough environment and other players will try
plenty of tricks to put you off your game.

Needling is one of the tricks. While there's some smiles
and laughs and cameraderie between the regulars at
a table, people are trying to win your money. Let me
remind you of a brutal poker truth: These People
Aren't Your Friends.

Send it!
========

When I win a pot I say "Send it!" to the dealer, an instruction
to pass that nice big pile of money to the rightful owner.
It's a pretty stupid thing to say but plenty of poker
players have a catchphrase they use after winning a pot.
Australia's 2005 WSOP Main Event Champion Joe Hachem
is famous for his phrase "Pass the Sugar!". Young guys
I played my first games of club poker with would say
"Ship it!" when they won pots and gradually the gap
between the words disappeared and they simply said "Shipput"
sounding a fair bit like a frog. A happy, poker-winning frog.

I wanted to say something similar to Shipput but I
wanted a phrase of my own. So "Send it!" was born.
Some of the regulars welcome me to the table with
"Hi, Sendit!" and I really like that. I sometimes
get on the computer board waiting list under the alias
"Sendit". A few people say "Send it!" when they win
pots against me and yes, it is a bit of a needle when
the pot's going the other way. It does seem to add
to the pain of a lost pot.

Some standard needles
=====================

The simplest needle for a losing player is to begrudingly
say "Nice hand, sir" in as sarcastic a voice as he can
get away with, particularly if he's been bad-beated by
a very ordinary hand that clearly didn't belong in this pot.
A normal fold and acknowledgment of the winner is a
non-sarcastic "nice hand" without the sarcasm and usually
without the "Sir".

I gutshot straigts in PLO a lot; either Nutshotting or in the
Horror Pots. When I show the winner, people can see from 
looking at all my four cards that I didn't actually have
a big straight draw of 13 outs or 9 outs, I didn't even have
the Open Ended Straight Draw of 8 outs, I had a crappy
gutshot and if there was obvious flush chances I had a
trashy 3-out gutshot draw.

"He had the full gutshot" one of the regulars said about
one of my weird winners and the phrase caught on.
Sometimes it's said mistakenly on hands where I had
a double gutshot. I never correct the record; I want
the other players to think I'll chase longshot draws
and that I'm even looser than I actually am.

One of my favourite players came up with the
post-hand analysis "The hand played itself" on a
really badly played hand that somehow won a pot
and certainly did NOT play itself. This is a great
needle that I've taken on board myself.

Finally there's the "my stack's bigger than yours"
needle; when you're having a great night, you're
about to cash out as a big winner and the target
of your needle hasn't got anything going tonight.
You ask him for a count of his chips and when he
says "I've got one-hundred-and-forty" you reply
"oh.. I've got over twelve hundred myself". This
is the cash poker equivalent of the football
player's "Look at the Scoreboard" needle.

My favourite all-time sports needle comes from
Ashes cricket. Mark Waugh was trying to put
an incoming English batsmen off his game, a
guy named James Ormond. Waugh said "there's
no way you're good enough to play for England"
and Ormond replied "Perhaps not. But at least
I'm the best cricketer in my family".

If I'm trying to needle Matty, say, and the
dealer says "Six to the flop" I might say
"that's Five good players, plus Matty".

