FLOP PLAY

Last updated: 20200616

In Holdem you normally "play it or dump it" on the Preflop Betting
Round. In Omaha you'll be taking a lot more flops, and your
"play it or dump it" decision often comes after you've seen the flop.
There's still plenty of hands that you'll dump preflop, and a 
good preflop fold of a Trouble Hand can save you your stack,
but a lot of the time you and plenty of other people will be taking
a flop. In 1/3 PLO there are a lot of flops with 7 players having
paid $3 to see a flop, or 5 players having paid $10 to see a flop.

Hit, Fit or Fold
================

You've got to connect with the flop strongly in Omaha. Overpairs
aren't the winners that they are in Holdem. Once you've seen the flop,
ask yourself "How well did I flop?" and re-assess your hand for draws
and nuttability. If you've missed the flop, chances are excellent that
it's hit someone else in the hand very, very strongly.

If someone bets the pot
and you're wondering what to do, ask yourself this question:
"Can I beat middle set by the turn?". If you've got good outs
to a hand that can beat middle set, call the bet, otherwise
fold and wait for the next hand. If you've got middle set
or top set yourself, strongly consider a big raise. You
could be up against a lower set who is scared of draws and
might jam his stack in right now when he's no chance of winning.
This is a fantastic result for you because it should wipe out
any naked straight or flush draws that might actually beat you
in the runout.

In Holdem you might ask yourself on the flop "Can I beat 
Top Pair/Top Kicker on the next card?" in the face of a strong 
flop bet, but in Omaha the hands are so strong that the question 
to ask yourself is "Can I beat middle set on the next card?".

Can I beat middle set on the next card?
---------------------------------------

Someone betting the pot on the flop in Omaha has one of these
hands, with possible redraws to higher hands:

* Top set
* Middle set
* Bottom set
* Top two pair
* Nut flush draw
* Big Straight Draw

If all you've got right now is top pair or an overpair, and you
don't have good draws to straight or flushes, get out cheaply.
The answer to "Can I beat middle set on the next card?" is NO.
(strictly speaking if you have an overpair you can get top set
with the right turn card but it's a thin two-out draw. If the call
is cheap enough you can take one off and try to spike the overset
but don't routinely do this).

This question helps you play flush draws, straight draws and
two pair flops well. If you've flopped top and bottom pair, or
bottom two, you can't beat a flopped middle set by the turn
unless the top pair repeats. So you should be frequently folding
top and bottom pair and bottom two pair in Omaha. They're trash holdings
and will only get you into big trouble later in the hand.

Now sometimes you fold J987 on a 942 flop and the runout is 94289 and
you've folded the stone-cold nuts. But the board doesn't run out that
well for you often enough to justify the call. Far more often the
board will bring a straight or someone with middle set of 444 holds
up. Naked top pair hasn't flopped well in Omaha. Don't take long
odds draws that cost you a lot time and time again when they miss.
Just get out cheaply, there's another hand in two minutes.

Once you've looked at your holding preflop and decided to play,
you'll have a good idea what a good flop for you would be.
If you're playing QQJ8 a good flop would be Qxy or KTx or T9x.
If you've got a suited Ace a good flop would have two cards
of your suit, giving you a nut flush draw.

If you don't flop the cards that you'd hoped for, don't continue 
in the hand. There's another hand in two minutes (TAHITM), let
other players fight it out for this pot.

You have to check/fold a lot of flops in Omaha. If the flop has
completely missed you (you've "whiffed" the flop), it's helped
someone else and you won't be the winner of this pot. Get out
as cheaply as you can.

There's a lot of flops that look like they help your hand but they
really help other people's hands a lot more. Make sure you're
drawing to hands that will be winners if they hit. T J Cloutier
advises to "Draw only to the Nuts"; if your straight draw or
flush draw won't be the nut straight or flush if it hits, you're
better off not paying to make what could be a very expensive loser.

If I set on the turn, will it be the nuts?
------------------------------------------

If you hold a pocket pair, and it hasn't hit a set on the flop, have a
quick think about whether your hand will be the (current) nuts if you
get lucky and set up on the turn. Say you've got KK87 and there's a
small bet on a J54 flop. This is a bet I'm happy to call; I have a
nutshot 6 and if a King comes on the turn I know that gives me the
current nuts with a set of Kings. Now let's have the same KK98 but
this time the flop is Q96. This flop is a lot more dangerous. Spiking
the K doesn't give me the current nuts anymore, because someone with
the very playable JT now has the nut straight if the turnboard is
Q96K. I've got an Open Ended straight draw but it's on the low side of
the board; my only nut turn is a 5. The turnboard Q96T has KJ and J8
both beating my 87, and there's so many cards out there in Omaha that
I could well be behind. Facing a bet with KK87 on a Q96 flop, it's a
fold.

Sets go down in flames to straights and flushes all the time in
Omaha. Don't stay in a hand when you're setting yourself up for
a stack loss even when the best possible card comes for you on the
turn. This is what T J Cloutier means when he says "draw only to the
nuts".

Middle set, bottom set
----------------------

Because of More Cards, there's many more pocket pairs in the holdings
in Omaha, and with more pocket pairs out there there's a lot more
set under set flops. Don't just call big bets and raises with
Middle Set and Bottom Set in Omaha - you could be crushed. You'll
develop some poker feel as you get more Omaha experience as to whether
your set is good or not. It doesn't hurt to try to keep the pot size
small; if you can't do that because your Enemy is blasting pot sized
bets on every street, strongly consider folding. It's better getting
bluffed off a few pots now and then than it is to routinely give away
your whole stack every time you flop bottom set or middle set.

Top two pair
------------

If you've flopped top two pair, you might be ahead and you can consider
taking down the pot right now if you can. The ranks of the top two pair
are important. KJ on a KJ5 flop is better than A7 on A76. The KJ top two
is likely to stay the top two on the turn, the A7 is likely to not be the
top two cards in rank when the turn comes. KJ only loses its top two pair
status if an Ace or a Queen turns, whereas A7 can be outdrawn if the turn
is a K,Q,J,T,9 or 8. 

Flopping top two pair in Omaha is like flopping Top Pair/Top Kicker
in Holdem. It's a good hand, and it'll often win the pot as it is,
but if players stick around on the turn and the river and the pot
get big, it's got little chance of still being the winning hand.
In Holdem some great advice is "don't go broke with one pair",
in PLO I suggest you "don't go broke with two pair". Remember that
the winning hand shown down in PLO is often the Nuts, and two pair
on a full board isn't very often the Nuts.

Have a look how wet or dry the flop is. Since straight wraps are
so big in Omaha you need a widely separated flop to be convinced
there's no good straight draws (9 outs or better) out there. There
are very few wide flops in Omaha; K72, K82, K83, and Q72 are about
the only ones.

If the top two cards get too close (K9, Q8) you start to get
inner wrap chances, the same as if the lower two cards are 62 or 52.

You can push two pair strongly when you have a short stack, it's a good
enough holding to get your money in with. This is like Holdem if you
have a $70 stack on a $50 pot and you hold KJ on a flop of JT8. You might
as well go all-in and you'll often get called by T9 and a lot of the
time you'll double up. But if you've got a $200 stack you have to tread
much more carefully, otherwise you give way too much money to someone
who already has a set or a straight.

Flop texture
============

If there's plenty of players taking a flop, there's a few flop types
that will make one player the immediate strong favourite.

Paired flops
------------

On a T66 flop, whoever has a 6 will be hot favourite (it's easy for
him to fill up, if he's not already got a full house) and sometimes
there's two players each with a 6 (remember the Top Forty principal:
the likelihood is that both the unknown Sixes are in the holdings)

When this happens, you normally see a 60%-100% pot sized bet from one player
and a single caller. The betting often slows down unless one of the
players gets a full house (either on the turn or the river) and then
betting comes alive again.

Sometimes there's a third player in and there's big bets and calls
on each of the flop, turn and river streets. This normally means
that someone has flopped the Overfull with TT, and two other players
holding a 6 are making crying calls trying to hit their full house
when they're actually drawing dead. This is a fantastic result
for the player with the overfull and sometimes he'll pick up the
stacks of two other players, with no risk whatsoever.

Normally in PLO drawing hands are just small dogs or even favourites,
but when you flop the Overfull you're the huge favourite. The only
cards you have to dodge are the quad card or an overcard that might
match a higher pocket pair which outboats you. This happened to me
in a bad beat; I have 99, the flop comes 944, I bet it out and get
one caller, who I understandably put on a 4. The turn is a King
and I lose to KKQJ, who makes KKK44 to my 99944. I'm not sure why
he called my flop bet with just that overpair, but he pulled
in a big pot, well against the odds.

In Holdem flop with low pairs like T66, 944 and K33 are "Orphan flops";
flops where nobody is likely to have hit anything and a preflop raiser
can make a pretty safe Continuation Bet and pick up the pot most of the
time. In Omaha you can't make these bets at Orphan flops, there's that
many cards out there that on T66 it's likely someone has a 6, on 944
it's likely someone has a 4, on K33 it's likely someone has a 3. So
a bluff at these flops (I call them "Dope flops") is very unlikely to
succeed; you're normally just giving your money away if you don't
hold at least the trips card yourself.

Flush flops
-----------

If the flop comes all of one suit, chances are good that one and possibly
two players have each flopped the flush. Fold your straight chances,
they won't win this hand. Often there's not much betting but one of
the players has flopped a small flush: not enough to bet with but
easily good enough to check/call with on the river if the pot is kept
small. A flopped non-nut flush is a small pot hand in PLO, but a
strong enough hand to check/call with.

If you flop a set on a flush flop, try to draw cheaply and fill up.
Take free or cheap cards if you can get them - you'll run the risk
of losing to a lucky straight playing this way who would've folded
had you bet, but if you start betting your sets regularly you'll
just be giving your chips away on those times when the made flush
is out there (and it usually is, trust me). A set on a flush
draw is really a 7 out draw to a full house on the flop and
a 10 out draw to a full house on the turn. It gets there only 20%
of the time, but when it does get there it's just about
unbeatable. Proceed with caution.

If you've flopped the nut flush yourself, bet it strong to get the
luckbox two pair draws out (or charge them the maximum) and get
lots of money from any smaller flushes out there. Sometimes you'll
pick up the small flop on the pot and you'll be disappointed that
you didn't get action. But when that happens, you wouldn't have
got any action later in the hand anyhow.. the best that could happen
is you get one crying call from a made straight by the river and if
the board pairs you have to slow down in case someone's Luckboated
you for free. Just bet it right now. And bet it from any position,
even under-the-gun, because lower flushes won't bet
(remember they'll check/call, not bet themselves). Don't expect
to be able to check-raise a flopped nut flush, you have to Do
Your Own Betting.

It sounds weird but pot-betting your nut flush is sneakier and more
deceptive than checking it or going for a check-raise. The hands
that will give you action (smaller flushes, sets) might think you're
"trying to buy it" and call you or even raise you. They might
reason that the nut flush might be played softer in case you risk
losing your customers. In Omaha you've got to do your own betting
and it's better to blast off customers than it is to string them
along and win the same small pot when they miss. It also protects
your hand against scary board pairs that will either beat you by
making someone a Luckboat, or slow down the action and win you
the current small pot or get bluffed off in fear of a Full House.

It's also better for your image; other players at the table see you
putting in big bets on scary flops and they know you're fearless.

In Holdem you're sometimes afraid of losing your customers when
you put bets in on the flop, so slow-playing is much more of a feature
of that game. In Omaha you're rarely that far ahead that you
can afford to slowplay, it's so easy to have a 2 pair hand in Omaha
on the flop that if you give free cards and the board pairs you've
cost youself badly. Had you bet the flop on an obvious made flush,
the two-pair, four-out hand would've folded, but now you've cost
yourself the pot and a lot more of your stack when you
make a losing just-in-case crying call on the river betting.

Straight flops
==============

Flops where you've got a good straight wrap are worth staying in
the hand with; they're obviously better when the flop has
three different suits and so there's no flush draws. If you've
got lots of outs and your draw is so strong you can bet and raise
it yourself, or you can just check/call. If I've got a lot of
nut outs and lots of chips behind I like to call a bet when I've
got players behind me.. this will get them to call as well and
make for a nice big pot that I can bet if my draw gets there
on the turn.

If there's a straight possible on the flop and lots of money
goes pouring in, expect at least one of the bettors, and sometimes
both, to have the Nut straight. On a JT8 flop, with lots of
betting action, your 9766 isn't worth it because the bettors both
have Q9. Often the money piles in and the pot is either split
or goes to the player who redraws to an even better hand, like
a higher straight, flush or a full house.

In extremely deep money situations it can be correct to fold
a flopped nut straight; because the bettors have the same nut
straight as you do and they have redraws while you don't. If
you've got AK to a QJT flop two spades, someone with AKQT two
spades has a very good chance of winning all your money; if
a spade, Queen or Ten comes on the last two cards. If the board
blanks, the pot is split. The player with the redraws to a better
hand is said to be "freerolling"; he's getting his chips in with
no chance of losing and a free shot at winning the entire pot.

Playing a Big Draw
==================

There are two ways of playing a big draw on the flop.
You can get as many chips in as you can, which has the
advantage of getting paid the maximum when your draw
comes in, but the disadvantage of losing the maximum when you miss.

You'll know the No Limit Holdem concept of the Semi-Bluff;
a bet or raise on the flop which can win the pot right now
by causing other players to fold, or can win a huge pot later
if there's callers and your draw gets there. Semibluffing in
Omaha happens all the time, only the draws are much fatter than
Holdem so you are often semibluffing with a hand that's favoured
to win. On a fat draw, your semibluff could be called a value raise.

If you do semibluff raise, you'll normally get heads up with the
original bettor and others will drop out, although sometimes the
flop is so wet that other players will stick around and a megapot
will form. Have a rough but decent idea of people's stack sizes;
some players might be undercalling all in and the dealer will take
some time making the main pots and side pots before the river
can be produced. You're a great chance of winning more money
on the river if you hit, since the pot is now so huge and it
looks like you might be trying to buy the side pot.

If your draw is to the Nuts and you face a bet on the flop
with multiple players still in the hand, I suggest you flat
call, which can keep downstream players in the
pot as well and swell the pot size that much more by the
time the turn comes. You can pick up information from the
downstream players; sometimes you correctly sense that
other people are staying in the hand with the same flush
draw as you; which is great because they'll pay you
off when you hit but is bad because there's now fewer
flush cards to come on the turn or the river.

While it's good stringing extra players along to swell the pot,
getting them out of the hand is also a win for you.
Someone staying in a hand normally has outs
to win, even with something as silly as hitting bottom trips on a
turn repeater, so getting the pot down to fewer players increases
your chances of winning this pot. The sweetest sound you can
hear in poker is a folded player honestly complaining
"I should have stayed in, I would've beaten you" while you're pulling
in a huge pot you've won against the player you got heads-up with.

You can take the turn card as cheaply as you can and come out blasting
if your draw comes in, slow right down if the board pairs,
or try to take a cheap river if the turn is a non-repeat brick.
Sometimes the brick turn has added you extra outs, perhaps a second
suit flush draw or more straight outs. When that happens
you can come out betting in line with the "win the most when you hit"
principle, or still try to keep things cheap. Ask yourself
if it's likely that your river bet will be called by at least one
player; if you think that's the case then you'd probably keep
things cheap on the turn betting as well.

Like many things in poker, this decision can be viewed as a
Risk/Reward question. If you keep things cheap and your draw
comes in, you'll wish that you'd bet earlier streets and the
pot was as big as it could possibly be, now that you know
you'll win it. But if you bet on the come and your draw
misses, you'll rue wasting money on your bets on a pot
you've now got no chance of winning.

In the next chapter I look at a very loose thin draw call I
sometimes make on the flop, The Nutshot.
