HANDS ON THE FLOP

Last Updated: 20191202

You know from your Holdem experience how to read a Flop and see what
hands and draws might be out there. There's not much happening
on a flop of T52 rainbow. Whoever is ahead on the flop will probably
be ahead on the river; though a hand like KQ could stay in and pair
their overcard. A bet on that T52 flop will often win the pot and end
the hand right now.

In contrast, there's lots of potential on the flop J98 two diamonds.
Two pair, pair with straight draw, made straight and flush draw are
all possible hands connecting with this flop. The best hand on the flop
will often get outdrawn.

A flop with widely spaced rainbow cards is called a Dry Flop and a flop
with straight and flush chances is called a Wet Flop. Because
straight draws run so wide in Omaha, you need a very widely spaced
flop to be truly straight-dry. There needs to be four gaps between
each card. There are so few of these flops that I'll list them:
K83, K82, K72, Q72. That's all of them. If there's only a three-gap,
like K92, someone with exactly QJT has flopped a 9-out nut straight
"inside wrap" draw.

No unpaired flop containing an Ace is straight-dry. If the flop contains
a wheel card, there's wheel straight draws out there. If the flop contains
a Broadway card, there's Broadway straight draws out there. And if
neither of these two things occur, the flop contains two cards in the range
(6,7,8,9) and there's straight draws in that range out there. Doyle
Brunson's No Limit Holdem chapter in Super System explains this at length,
as a warning to how you can still lose if your AA flops a set on an
unpaired board.

A flop with a pair on it I call a Dope flop and I'll discuss separately.
Also to be discussed separately are three-of-the-same-suit monochrome flops.

You want to flop big in PLO; either top set that can improve to the
best possible full house, a nut flush draw, or a big straight wrap.
Really good hands flop combinations of these, which I'll look at later.

If you don't connect strongly with the flop, chances are excellent that
someone else in this hand has, and will easily beat you in this hand.
Don't bring a knife to a gunfight, get out cheaply this hand. A much
better opportunity will come soon; when they've got the knife and you've
got the cannon.

Flop betting in a multiway Omaha pot that isn't already huge is pretty
honest. A pot sized bet on a JT4 flop normally comes from top set; and
the callers have straight or flush draws. Depending on the hands involved,
top set might not be the favourite to win.

TOP SET
=======

Jamming with Top Set is a PLO tradition; charging the maximum for hands
to try to outdraw you. You can't stop draws staying in; as the betting
is Pot Limit. A good 12-out draw is getting about the right price in
Pot Limit; if he's being charged 2 to 1 for his call as he is about
25% to make his draw on the next card. So calling pot sized bets isn't
going too much against the odds; you're getting 2 to 1 on your call
with more money to be made if your draw comes in.

Also if the pot isn't big on the flop, it doesn't cost too much in
absolute terms to call a bet on the flop. A No Limit pot can get
big at any moment with an all-in overbet, a Pot Limit pot gets huge
only as new bets go in. So calling a flop bet while the bets aren't
yet too big is a good strategy.

If you bet the pot with top set on a dry board like J62 and pick
up the pot as it is, that's a good result for you because
The Turn Changes Everything. Checking the flop and coming out
firing on a board of J627 two hearts is bad poker because someone
with QT98 two hearts, who completely missed the flop, now has
a pile of outs and will happily call your turn bet and win a big
pot from you when any of his outs comes in on the river.

FIXME: get the number of outs for the calling hand.

One great result of pot-betting top set is you can get
reraised by middle set or top two pair. Middle set is also
worried about protecting his hand against straight and flush
runouts. If Middle Set gets his chips in the middle against
your top set, you can play for his stack one-on-one when
he's get just one out or is even drawing dead. There's no easier
money to be made in poker.

Once I had top set on a T72 flop, two spades, bet it out and got all in
heads-up against someone who raised me. The board ran out T7298
with three spades and it looked like I'd be losing this pot
to any draw whatsoever. I won the pot, because the guy who re-raised
me on the flop had just top two pair, T7. Two other players with draws
were forced out because of this furious flop betting, each would
have outdrawn me. Sensational.

Omaha is a nut game and flopped top set in Omaha is like flopped
Top Pair/Top Kicker in Holdem. It's likely to be the best hand right
now but it's not likely to be the best hand once all the cards are out.
Sets only turn into full houses 20% of the time and if they don't,
there's five unpaired board cards and it's too easy for other
holdings to have straights or flushes.

MIDDLE SET
=======

More stacks have been killed with flopped Middle Sets than any other
holding. They lose to straight wraps and flush runouts and they're
absolutely smoked my top set. If the top card on the flop is an Ace
you can take your chance that nobody has an AAA set but if the
top card is anything else you could be behind to top set.

If you bet your middle set and get pot raised, what hand can the
raiser have except top set? OK sometimes he's got bottom set but
if you regularly commit your stack with middle set in Omaha
you're making a huge mistake. If your stack is less than
$200 then go ahead and take your chances but save your stack
when you're deep.

BOTTOM SET
==========

Bottom set is even more of a stack killer than Middle Set. It's
a real trap for Holdemites who've scooped $400 pots in NLH
with hidden sets 444, 333 or 222 and don't see why they can't
do the same in Omaha.

Sometimes Bottom set is up against top two pair and when the board
pairs on the turn, it's become Bottom Boat and is smoked. Bottom
set is the ultimate low confidence hand.

I regularly fold holdings with 22, 33 or 44 in them, unless they
have other things going for them like a suited Ace or
wheel straight chances. 5422 or A322 I'll take a flop with
but T822 is in the muck preflop. This preflop fold doesn't just
save me $3 or $10 in the preflop call, it saves me my stack
on those times that I flop bottom set and I'm miles behind.

You have to fold bottom pocket pairs if you're going to be an
Omaha winner. When the big money goes into a PLO pot, the
winning hand is often the absolute nuts and bottom set,
once all the cards are out, is never the nuts.

The lowest pocket pair I've flopped an overful with is 55.
I got a 544 flop and won a big pot from two other players who
each had a 4.

Now and again I lose a big pot to a 222 set, it's worth checking
the full four card holding of the winner and seeing if
they had anything going for their hand besides that trashy low
pair. I've won the stacks of 222 sets many more times than
I've lost big pots to them, so if the other players really want
to keep taking flops with low pairs and nothing else going
for their holding then I don't mind. They'll make a huge
stack-costing mistake with bottom set sooner or later.

SET OVER SET
============

I was involved in a bunch of big pots in a big home game
(5/5 blinds, most stacks $800-$1500) in December 2019. In
the first hand I have KKxy on a flop of KT7 and I get all-in on
the flop. The runout looks pretty scary; the final board is KT786
but nobody had a straight, my enemy had TTxy.

In the second hand I've got 665x in a three-way pot with the flop
of A65 two diamonds. Because the stacks are so deep, it's not always
obvious when someone is playing AA so my middle set might be good or
it might be smoked. I bet $80 into the $100 pot; there's a call but
a massive check-raise to $300. I make a stack-saving fold, the
other player calls and it's AAxy v 65xy on that A65 flop. AA easily
wins.

In the third hand I've got TTxy to a raise and the flop is KT4. The
turn is a 4 and I get all-in but on the turnboard of KT44 I'm smoked
by my enemy's KK. I'd hoped from his preflop raise that he had AA;
but on this hand he had KK.

Set over set happens all the time in Omaha.

TWO PAIR HANDS
==============

There;s four ways of flopping Two Pair in Omaha. Let's say the
flop is a reasonably dry J73; there's some inside wrap hands
possible (T98, 654) but it's pretty dry. You can flop top two pair
(your holding is J7xy), top and bottom pair (J3xy), bottom two pair
(73xy) or all three pairs (J73x).

To begin with, any two pair hand is smoked by top set (such as
that hand I mentioned in the Top Set section where I had TT
against T7 on a T72 flop). Don't imagine that your having top two
pair lessons the chance of a villain having top set or middle set.
In No Limit Holdem you learn not to go broke with just one pair.
In Omaha you have to learn not to go broke with two pairs. The reasoning
is the same in both games: anyone willing to pour big money into the pot
has a hand that beats you. Unless your stack is small and you're
prepared to take a chance with a likely-best-hand-right-now,
don't overcommit with two pair.

That said, let's have a look at the different kinds of two pair hands

Top Two Pair
------------

This is of course the best of the two pair hands and can be worth
good investment, if your radar tells you there's no sets against you.
If the top card repeats on the turn (turnboard J73J) you've got the nuts
and you'll win the stack of middle set, bottom set and top and
bottom pair.

If the middle card repeats (turnboard J737) you've got the probable
nuts (JJ beats you but you hope your "top set isn't out there" radar
is accurate). You can lose to KQ7x id the river is an overcard King
or Queen. It's worth taking that chance.

Top and Bottom Pair
-------------------

Top and Bottom Pair is very problematic. It's smoked by the sets
and by top two pair. If the top card repeats it's game over.
Imagine J3 v J7 on that turnboard of J73J. Another way top and bottom pair
loses its stack is when bottom pair repeats and the villain had middle
set and fills up. Omaha is a tough game of nut hands.

You won't win too many big pots when you start out with flopped
Top and Bottom Pair.

Bottom Two Pair
---------------

Bottom Two Pair as you'd imagine is by far the worst of these holdings.
It's smoked by all sets and any other two pair hand. You want other
things happening in your hand if you want to continue with this hand.

I've correctly folded the highest possible bottom two pair on the
flop a few times; KQ to a flop of AKQ.

Once I got super lucky with bottom two pair, Queen high flush draw
against top two pair Ace high flush draw. I've got Q854 on a
T54 flop. I've against AJT5 with a better flush draw, luckily for
me I get a miracle 4 on the turn and end up with the lucky
44455 full house, almost the only way I could have won this hand.

Three Pair
----------

Three Pair is a very interesting Omaha hand. It's not a final
Omaha hand but an intermediate one on the flop. If other
players have top and bottom pair or bottom two pair with nothing
else going for their hand, they're almost no chance of winning
(in pracice they have a tiny chance of runner runner fourth card
trips, but their chances are desperately slim).

Some players play three pair as though it's top set
(any board pair fills them up) but it's actually a fair bit weaker.
There's 6 outs on the turn for the 3-pair boat compared to 7 outs
on the turn for the top set boat. Overcard turns improve
other hands to better two pair a lot more than top sets
get killed by overcards.

Because three pair smokes the other two pair hands, and it's likely
the best hand at the moment, you can get a fair stack in on the flop
if you like, especially if your top two pair are pretty high
and not too vulnerable to overcard turns. KJx is a great three
pair hand when you flop it; it's vulnerable to straight wraps but
it won't get outdrawn to higher two pair that often. T9x is a vulnerable
two pair hand because a lot of turn cards can make an enemy better two pair.

Three pair sometimes becomes Four pair on the turn but again
you've fewer full house outs than traditional top set. J732 on
a J732 turnboard has 8 outs while JJ85 on J732 has 10 outs.

Four pair can't be counterfeited.
