THE FREE CARD PLAY

Last updated: 20190123

I'm old enough to have played a lot of Fixed Limit Poker, and some
of the old Fixed Limit concepts apply to Pot Limit Omaha. In this
chapter, I'll look at one of the great Fixed Limit plays, the
Free Card Play.

Here's how it works in Limit. You're on the button in a 10/20 game
and you flop an open-ended straight draw. It's heads up on a flop
of 984 and the cutoff bets $10. You raise to $20 and the cutoff
calls. The turn card misses your straight draw, but the cutoff
checks and you check behind, and it's time for the river.

In Limit the betting is double on the turn so if you'd just called
the $10 flop bet you'd probably have to face a $20 turn bet, to try
and make your straight. Because you raised on the flop, you weren't
bet at on the turn and you got to check behind. It cost you $20 to
get to the river, not $30.

Sometimes the cutoff will make it $30 to go on the flop and still bet
$20 at you on the turn and it's now costing you $50 to see the river instead
of $30, but most of the time the free card play saves you $10. Saving
money here and there when you're behind is what Limit Poker is
all about.

The Free Card Play is a Pot Size Control technique; keeping the pot small
while you're drawing and you're behind. This helps your main gambling
goal of Win Big, Lose Small.

Here's the Free Card Play in action in a PLO hand. I've got 99 on a flop
of QJ9 two spades. The pot's already $100 and it's checked to me
on the Button and I bet $70. Two players call. It's possible the first
caller has a straight and is flat calling to sucker overcallers in;
he might be bothered by the flush chances and want to see a safe turn
before he jams money in. There's obvious two-pair chances there as well,
but the fact I'm not raised makes me think that there's no QQ or JJ
set against me.

The turn is a red 4 and the two other players check to me. I check behind.
My $70 "Free Card Play" bet on the button has let me get to the river
for that price. While that turn 4 hasn't completed the flush, I'm leery
of the fact I got two callers and suspect a low-confidence T8 straight
could be out there. If I bet this turn I'm at risk of a check-raise
that could force me out of the pot or cost me my stack. I'll take the
free card.

The river is a repeat 4 and I'm checked to twice. That's a great full-house
river for me and I now want to sell my hand into this $310 pot. I bet
$90 on the river and both players call! The first beaten caller
said he had the KT straight and would've check-raised me all-in had I bet
on that safe turn. He'd flat called my flop bet to sucker an overcaller in,
exactly as I suspected.

Had the river not bought a repeater, I might have faced a tough river call
with my trips, but the river could have been a scare card fourth-straight-card
flush-bringing Spade giving me the easiest of folds. As the hand played
out I was able to value bet a non-nut full house, not fearing a raise, and
get my bet paid off by two players. A great result for my Free Card Play.
Excellent pot size control.

In Limit Poker you can't be blasted off a hand with a check-raise; if you
try the Free Card Play and you get re-raised it's cost you one Big Bet.
In Pot Limit your bet can be check-raised a massive amount; which you
don't want when you have good fat draws. So you might want to check the flop
and call the turn if you've got a fat draw and haven't hit yet. You can
consider the Free Card Play on your thin draws (eg nutshot straight) where
if you get blasted off with a huge check-raise you can fold without too
much regret because your draw was thin to begin with.
