GLOSSARY

Last updated: 20200121

Most books put the glossary right at the back and you never
look at it that much. I'm reversing this by putting my glossary at
the front. My book is full of poker language and it's very
important that you understand it from the outset.

These poker terms apply to cash poker games not tournaments.
So "Deal" refers to a hand of cards, not arranging a different
prize pool payout at the final table of a Tournament.
Likewise "Freeroll" is used with a specific Omaha cash
meaning and doesn't mean a Tournament with no entry fee.

Items maked (DRS) are terms I've come up with myself
(to the best of my knowledge- it's possible that other people
have independently come up with the same or similar names). I
use them throughout the book so pay special attention to them.
One term, "Nutshot", I thought was original but I came across
it in another book so I'm not marking it as one of mine.
You'll know many of the other items already.

Poker terminology changes over time. Holdem used to be Texas Hold'em
and then a few people (myself included!) got sick of always putting
the apostrophe in and the game is now simply Holdem. Your two
unique cards in Holdem were originally HOLD CARDS then they became
Hole Cards. I call the four cards you have in Omaha your HOLDING.
A one-on-one confrontation used to be HEAD-UP and is now
HEADS UP, which is also a business term for a meeting between two
people to get on the same page.

There's many good glossaries of poker and gambling terms online;
I find this resource excellent:
http://www.dictionaryofgambling.com/gambling_terms/poker/

ACES CRACKER: A HOLDING that you think has a good chance of beating an
  opponent holding pocket Aces, because of its excellent
  FLOPPABILITY.

ADVANTAGE GAMBLING: Gambling where your superior skill gives you an
  advantage over the other players.

ALL RED (DRS): A Holding double-suited in hearts and diamonds. This is a
  writing convenice for me in this book; if I say you've got
  AAJT All Red that means you've got Aces double suited.

BABY: A Low board card, in the range 2,3,4,5. Also called a WHEEL CARD.

BACKDOOR: A hand made using both the turn and the river card. Holdem
  players call this RUNNER-RUNNER.

BACKDOOR FLUSH: A flush made using one of the flop cards and both
  turn and river cards. The opposite of the NATURAL FLUSH.

BADUGI: A four card holding or TURNBOARD with one of each suit. You can't make
  a flush in Omaha with a Badugi holding, no matter what comes in the
  Community. If the TURNBOARD is Badugi, nobody can make a flush on this deal.
  This term comes from a new fun limit triple-draw game
  where the nut hand is A234 of all different suits. A Badugi holding
  is bad in Omaha; you don't have any flush draws or any flush BLOCKERS.

BEHIND: (1) A player who acts after you in a betting round
        (2) The amount of money remaining in a stack after putting money
            into the pot. "He called the $40 bet preflop and had $110 behind"
        (3) A player who needs to improve his hand on the river to win
            this pot.
        (4) A player who is losing in this session. (sometimes called "stuck")

BET-FOLD: To bet, though intending to fold to a raise. This action-filled
  move can save you money if you're confident that you only get raised
  by a better hand. If you hadn't bet, you would've check-called a
  higher amount from that winning hand anyhow. You bet $60 into a $100 pot,
  it gets raised to $200 and you fold. Whereas you check, $80 is bet
  and you call the $80. The Bet-Fold move saved you $20.

BETTOR: A person making a bet. I spell it this way to distinguish
  it from better meaning "preferable".

BLOCKERS: Cards in your hand that diminish the chance that someone else
  could have a strong hand. If you've got the Ace of Hearts and the flop
  has three hearts, you know that nobody has the nut flush. If you've
  got pocket TT and the flop is 987 you doubt that anyone has the JT
  nut straight because you're looking at two of the required Tens in
  your own holding. In my opinion Blocker Theory isn't very useful
  in PLO; the thinking that "he can't have that card because I have
  two of them" is flawed.

BLUSH: A one-card flush bluff, you don't actually have the flush but
  you do have the highest possible flush card, so you know that
  nobody else can have the nut flush (you have the nut flush blocker)
  If you've got the Ace of spades (without another spade in your holding)
  and the board has K94 of Spades, you have The Blush.

BOARD: The shared community cards. Sometimes called the COMMUNITY. In this
  book I refer to the board at each of its three phases: the flop,
  the turnboard and the riverboard. Turnboard and Riverboard are useful terms
  because you know I'm talking about the 4 cards by the turn or the 5 cards
  by the river and not just the single flop card or single river card.

BOARD PAIR: A turn or river card that makes the community cards show a pair.
  An all-in player, with a set or THREE PAIR and seemingly needing to improve
  to a full house to win, will often ask the dealer to "Pair
  the Board". Also called a REPEATER.

BOARD PAIR BLUFF: A bluff, representing making a Full House when
  the Board Pairs.

BRICK: A turn or river card that doesn't help any of the drawing hands.
  "The flop came 986 two hearts, I've got up and down and the heart
  draw but the turn was the 3 of spades and the river the 2 of clubs.
  What a bunch of Bricks". Also a RAG.

BOTTOM TWO: To have the bottom two pair after the flop. On a flop of
  K94, a player with 9854 has flopped Bottom Two

BROADWAY: The highest possible straight, AKQJT.

BROADWAY CARDS: Cards in the range A,K,Q,J,T; the 5 cards of the BROADWAY
  straight. K,Q,J,T are sometimes called Picture cards, Face Cards
  or Paint.

BUNCHING: The preflop belief that with lots of betting, the high broadway
  cards are all in people's holdings and there's more midrange 5,6,7,8,9
  or BABY cards that are live and are likely to appear on the flop.

BUTTON: The player last to act on a checked through flop, turn or river
  betting round.

CARD PROTECTOR: An ornament used to weigh down your cards and protect
  them from the dealer accidentally folding them in hands you're still in.
  Some players use chips from other casinos or a heavy flat disc.
  Doyle Brunson's card protector, Casper, is famous in poker.

CARDS SPEAK: A hand tabled face-up at showdown plays for the best
  possible Five Card hand it can make. The dealer and other players
  can help determine this best possible hand.

CASE: The fourth and final card of a rank in the deck. If you've got
  pocket Kings, you're up against AAKx and you still flop a King,
  that King on the flop is the Case King. Because of TOP FORTY,
  most of the cards you see in the community are the case cards.

CHECK BEHIND: A betting move where you're last to act, the player(s)
  in front of you have checked and you also check. The CRYING BET
  takes this option away.

CHECK-CALL HAND: A holding strong enough to call a decent sized bet
  with, but not really strong enough to bet (in case it gets pot-raised
  and becomes too expensive to call). A classic Check-Call hand in Omaha
  is a non-nut flush. Some non-nut full houses are also Check-Call
  hands.

CHECK-FOLD: To check when it's your betting option and then fold to
  a bet. Compare BET-FOLD.

COMMUNITY: The shared cards (flop, flop+turn, flop+turn+river) in
  Omaha and Holdem. I much prefer the term BOARD.

COOLER: (1) A hand where you lose lots of money, bringing a winning
  streak to an uncomfortable end (2) A turn or river card that completes
  an obvious draw, this card will cool down the betting from players
  who haven't made this draw.

COUNTERFEIT: To have the value of your two-pair hand trashed by
  an unrelated pair on the board.

CRYING BET: (DRS) A first-to-act bet of a non-nut hand, but a hand
  you'd crying call with if you'd check and faced a bet. A Crying Bet
  takes away the option of the last-to-act player of checking behind
  and means that when you are ahead, you get full value for your hand.

CRYING CALL: A not-very-confident call where you expect you'll probably
  lose, but you call just to make sure. Omaha is such a nut-hand game
  that you crying call a lot less than you do in Holdem, but people
  still bluff in PLO and sometimes your crying call will win you the pot.

DANGLER: A card in your holding that doesn't contribute to your playability.
  If you have KQJ2, the 2 is a dangler.. it doesn't contribute to
  your straight chances and you're unlikely to be using it in
  your two showdown cards. Poker legend T J Cloutier invented this term.

DEADSTACK NOTHREAT: (DRS) A Deadstack Nothreat is a player who lets his
  stack run down to a low level, mostly through calling bets preflop and
  missing flops and folding. This player type doesn't raise preflop to
  get protection from the aggressive player, and ends up having a small
  stack that is inactive (it might as well be dead) and isn't a threat to
  the big stacks at the table.

DEALER: The Casino employee who handles the cards, runs the hand,
  takes the rake and awards the pot. The player with best position
  used to be called the Dealer but these days is called the BUTTON.

DOWN CARD: A card in a poker game dealt face down and private to one player
  and known only to him. In Omaha, each player is dealt four Down Cards.

DOPE FLOP: (DRS) A flop with a low pair on it (22,33,44,55,66,77,88,99).
  It's likely helped someone in the hand who has one of these cards.
  J33, K66 and T55 are all Dope Flops. Dope Flops seem to always turn
  up when you have a hand with fantastic FLOPPABILITY and you think
  to yourself "the flop has got to help me, whatever it is".

DOUBLE SUITED: Your HOLDING contains 2 cards of 2 suits. AcAd7c6d is
  double suited in Clubs and Diamonds.

DRY FLOP: A widely spaced, RAINBOW flop where top set is the best possible
  hand and looks very likely to still be the best possible hand after
  the turn. K72 and Q85 are dry flops. See WET FLOP

DYOB: (DRS) Do Your Own Betting. This principle is so important in PLO that
  it gets its own acronym.

FADE: A board card you need to dodge because it'll make somone a better
  hand than your currently made hand. If you have AA to a board
  of AK9 two diamonds, you have to fade a diamond and maybe a
  Queen, Jack and Ten to keep the winning hand (if you don't fill up).

FAT DRAW: A drawing hand that has a lot of outs. A flush draw with
  straight outs or a wide straight draw is a fat draw. 12 outs or more
  is a fat draw. This is the opposite of a THIN DRAW.

FIFTH STREET: Old-school term for the river card and the final betting round
  which follows the river.

FINAL BOARD: The full 5-card BOARD after the river has been revealed.

FIVE CARD HAND: Your best hand (according to 2+3 Showdown Rule) that
  you use at the Showdown.

FIVE-FIVE REFUGEE: (DRS) Someone in the 1/3 PLO game who normally
  plays the 5/5/10 PLO game. There might be no 5/5/10 game going,
  or he might be on the waiting list for the game, or he might be in
  a bust-up-the-small-game mood. Five-five refugees are playing
  relaxation stakes at 1/3, and bet and raise it up big to bring the
  game into their big-bet game and terrify the timid 1/3 players.

FLOP: (1) The first three community cards in a FLOP GAME.
      (2) The round of betting immediately following the revealing of the Flop.
      In this book I call the betting round the FLOPSTREET.

FLOP GAMES: Poker games involving shared community cards that are
  revealed in three phases: a three card Flop, a fourth card Turn and
  a final card River. Holdem is the most common Flop Game, followed
  by Omaha. A third flop game I won't cover but have played a bit of
  in Home Games is called Pineapple.

FLOPPABILITY: (DRS) The ability of your HOLDING to Flop well.
  The more flops that hit your holding well, the better your floppability.
  QQ73 has low floppability; it needs a Queen to flop well. 9877 has
  high floppability; it's good on flops with a 7 and various straight
  flops. See NUTTABILITY.

FLOPSTREET: (DRS) The round of betting following the Flop being revealed.

FOLDER'S REMORSE: Folder's remorse is what you have when you fold
  on the flop or turn, only to discover in the runout that you
  would have made a Nut hand and won a big pot.

FOUR CARD BINGO: The game of PLO where the winner is decided on whoever
  fitted best with a strange board. If you win on a board of J95T5 with a
  holding like KQ95, you've won the game of Four Card Bingo.

FOUR PAIR: To have all four cards on the TURNBOARD paired in your HOLDING.
  Four pair is not a FIVE CARD HAND, it's an intermediate hand on the TURNBOARD
  that will resolve to a FIVE CARD HAND on the final board.

FOURTH STREET: Old-school term for the turn card and the betting round
  that follows the turn.

FREEROLL: To have the same hand as another player, but a draw
  to better hands. Typically in Omaha this happens when two players
  flop the same straight but one has a draw to a higher straight,
  a flush, or a full house. The player with the re-draw is Freerolling,
  he will at worst split the pot and has a chance of winning the
  whole pot if his hand improves. This can also happen if two players
  have the same top-two-pair but a player has overcards that can
  improve to higher two pair.

FTA: First-to-act. A lot of people use the term "out of position",
  I prefer First-to-act.

FULL BET RULE: The stipulation that if someone raises all-in for less than
  what a full raise would be, betting is not re-opened to players who
  have already bet or called up to the old high betting point. If
  the preflop betting has gone $10 to $40 and someone goes all in for
  $65, it's not a high enough bet to the $70 that would be needed to make
  a full raise. Players who have bet or called to $40 cannot reraise,
  they can only call the final $25 to $65. A player who is in for $10
  can now fold (forfeiting his $10), call to $65 or raise to $70 or more.

FULL RING: A poker cash game with a lot of players dealt to; 8, 9 or 10.
  If there's a few less players the game might be "Six Max" and
  if there's four or less than the game is shorthanded. In a
  Full Ring game of Omaha, the TOP FORTY principle applies.

GO TO WAR: Bet or raise the maximum you can. Jam your stack in.

GUTSHOT-GUTSHOT: An improbable straight made RUNNER-RUNNER.
  "Can you belive this? I've got set-over-set on AT5, he calls me with
  AK55 and it comes AT5QJ and he beats me gutshot-gutshot".

HAND: A full deal of poker. Sometimes this term means the four unique
  hole cards you are dealt, but in this book I call your four hole cards
  your HOLDING

HEATER: A hand where you make lots of money, a series of these
  hands in a short space of time makes you win tons of money in a Rush.
  The opposite of COOLER, Sense 1.

HOLDEMITE: (DRS) A player who is new to Omaha, whose primary game and
  poker experience so far has been in No Limit Holdem.

HOLDING: The four cards that you are dealt. Your starting hand.

THE HOLE: The amount of money you've lost for the night. If you've blown
  four $150 buyins and you're in for another $150 and you've built
  up to $320 in chips, you're still $430 in The Hole. See "Par".

HORROR POT: (DRS) A multiway pot that's so huge that you stay in it,
  calling big bets against the odds, because if you fold and
  then find out you would've won all this money it will crush you.

JAM: To bet or raise, getting as much of your chips in as quickly as
  you can.

LEAD CHANGE: The player with the current best hand is "in the lead".
  When the turn or river changes the best hand and the player
  who has the best hand, a lead change has occurred.

LUCKBOAT: (DRS) To turn two pair into a full house by the board pairing.
  A set turning into a full-house is fair enough, but a Two Pair hand
  getting a 4-out REPEATER to make a full house is a Luckboat.

LUCKBOX: A lucky player who is getting good hands and help from the Board
  in this session.

LOW CONFIDENCE HAND: (DRS) A made hand that is a long way from
  being the nuts (eg 9954 on a board of 63325). You sometimes win
  small pots with Low Confidence Hands (other players also haven't
  got anything strong enough to bet so they're checking their betting
  options just like you are) but you can't bet them with confidence.

LTA: Last-to-act. A lot of people use the term "in position",
  I prefer Last-to-act.

MEGAPOT: A huge pot, over $800 and frequently over $1000.

MIDRANGE CARD: A card between the BROADWAY CARDS and the WHEEL CARDS.
  A card in the range (5,6,7,8,9)

NAKED DRAW: A hand still contesting the pot that can win in one way only.

NATURAL FLUSH: The flush made using two of the flop cards and a turn or
  river card. If the flop comes two diamonds and a club, a Diamond flush
  is the Natural Flush and a club flush (needing both the turn and river to
  be clubs) is the Backdoor Flush. I believe this term comes from the
  Australian card game Manila.

NUTSHOT: A gutshot straight draw to the Nuts. Normally your
  drawing hands should have more outs than just a Nutshot, but even a
  Nutshot can be a good draw on the flop, if you've got enough chips to blast
  out the field on the turn when you get there.

NO MORE ACTION: All players except one are all-in so no more betting
  is possible. Since no more betting is possible, players may now
  SPREAD THEIR HANDS without penalty if they wish.

NOT FOLDING: A state where you're expecting to see this hand through
  all the way to the river. There's two main reasons you could be
  NOT FOLDING: because your draw is so strong you'll call any bets,
  or because so many of your chips are in the pot that you're
  POT COMMITTED. A third reason you're Not Folding is when you're
  involved in a HORROR POT.

NUT PEDDLING: Betting with the Nuts. This is frequently-seen behaviour
  in PLO. Some players are quite timid with their betting and only
  bet the pot or bet big with the Nuts. These people are Nut Peddlers.

NUTTABILITY: (DRS) The capacity of your HOLDING to make a Nut hand once
  all the cards are out. Suited Aces and high pairs and clusters
  of BROADWAY CARDS have good Nuttability. See FLOPPABILITY.

OMAAAAGH: (DRS) A big hand where you correctly get all your chips in,
  yet still lose. The word sounds like "ARRRRGH" or "OH MAH GAWD".
  The word Omaaaagh is spelled with four consecutive letter "a"s.

ONE-WAY HAND: A holding which looks like it only has one thing going
  for it. It can only make one good hand, either a high set, a good flush
  or a straight. Good Omaha holdings have the possibility of making more
  than one of these hand types. One-way hands have poor FLOPPABILITY.

OVERFULL: The current best full house, made with top set with an underpair
  showing on the board. KK on a K88 flop has flopped the Overfull.

  The overfull isn't always the Nuts, it loses to Quads and it can be
  outdrawn by a higher pair overfilling it. If you have KK87 on the
  K88 flop, you can't lose to quads as you've accounted for one of the
  remaining Eights.

  KT on a flop of KKT is the current best full house, but isn't an
  Overfull. The Overfull is specifically the full house made with
  Top Set and an underpair on the board.

PAR: (DRS) The amount of money in chips you need to be even for the night.
  If you've blown two $150 buyins and you're into you're third $150
  buyin, Par is $450 in chips. If you're above Par you're a winner
  for this session, if you're below Par you're a loser for the session.
  The amount of money you're below Par in this session is THE HOLE.

PARTY HANDS: (DRS) A hand where multiple supershort to medium stacks are
  each all-in preflop and the winner will be decided according to the priciples
  of FOUR CARD BINGO. I personally find Party Hands quite fun (provided my
  stack is short enough to play them) and if you win one on your early buyin
  it's just about the easiest $500 you'll make at Poker.

POISON CARD: (1) A seeming out for you on the BOARD that makes someone a
  better hand and costs you your stack. (2) A bad card in your own HOLDING
  that makes an otherwise good starting hand a lot worse. A DANGLER.

POT BUILDER: A preflop bet that will probably be called by a few people
  and will build a nice sized pot to be present at the flop. Also called
  a Pot Sweetener.

RAINBOW FLOP: A flop with three different suits. Nobody can make a flush
  by the turn. If the turn is the fourth suit, nobody can make a flush
  in this hand, whatever the river is.

RAG: A useless BOARD card that doesn't complete your draw, on either the
  turn or the river. "I flopped a flush draw, two pair and gutshot
  straight, but the board went RAG RAG". Also a BRICK.

RATHOLING: Taking money from your stack and putting it in your pocket,
  so you're saving some profit and playing a smaller stack.
  You're not allowed to do this unless transferring tables
  or you're merging tables and you're one of the players
  moving to the new table.

RED TOWER: (DRS) Twenty red $5 chips stacked up to make a $100 chip stack.

REPEATER: A turn or river card that makes a pair on the board. Also
  called a BOARD PAIR

RESULTING: The human tendency to think that a decision was bad if you
  lose and good if you win; based on the board runout. In Omaha
  you get to see the runout a lot of the time because a lot of hands go
  to the river, so you don't have to regret not being able to Rabbit Hunt.

ROLF SEAT: The seat to the immediate right of the most aggressive player
  at the table. This lets you limp/checkraise maximum preflop if you have
  a powerful hand and you expect the aggressive player will raise preflop
  and there will be a bunch of callers before action returns to you.
  This term is from Omaha author and shortstacking expert Rolf Slotboom.

RUNNERS: Number of unfolded players still in the hand contesting the pot.
  When a few players fold and it's down to two runners, it's HEADS UP.

RUNNER-RUNNER: (1) A poker hand made using both the turn and river cards.
  A traditional, Holdem players name for BACKDOOR. (2) A pretty disappointing
  poker movie starring Ben Affleck and Justin Timberlake, set mostly in
  Costa Rica.

RUNNING THE BOARD: What a dealer says when there's NO MORE ACTION and
  the only thing for him to do is produce the remaining community cards.

RUNOUT: The community cards as the turn and river are produced, ending
  in the FINAL BOARD. "The flop was JT4, and the runout was JT445".

SCHMENGIE: A low probability bad beat, made by a chump who shouldn't
  have been in the pot in the first place. "I've got top two, nut
  flush draw, gutshot Broadway draw and I'm called by the 9-high flush
  draw with pocket fives and the river comes a five. What a Schmengie"

SCOOP: To win every side pot and the main pot. This term has a different
  meaning in Omaha High-Low; this book is about PLO High only so
  Scoop simply means to win every pot.

SET: To match your POCKET PAIR with a board card. See TRIPS.

SHORTSTACKING: A strategy of playing Pot Limit Omaha with a short stack
  and getting good chances to double or triple up on your good hands.
  The strategy involves elements of PROTECTION, the ROLF SEAT and PARTY HANDS.

SIXTH STREET: A term coined by Tommy Angelo in his fantastic book
  "Elements of Poker" to describe what happens at showdown and the
  shenanigans that go on there.

SOUL READ: A completely accurate read of your enemy's hand. You've looked
  into his soul and now know exactly his cards.

SPREAD YOUR HAND: To show your cards during the play of a hand, when
  you're all-in and there's NO FURTHER ACTION. I typically spread
  a set if I get one or a big straight draw; this can speed up the showdown
  when I'm the winner. Also called TABLE YOUR HAND. If you're showing
  an obvious Nuts winner, show the two cards you're using a little separate
  from your other two cards and announce your winning hand.

STACK SAVER: A preflop fold, where you get to see the runout. You flop so
  strongly that you'd be happy to get your stack in, but when
  all the cards are out you find out you would've lost the hand
  and lost your stack, had you stayed in. I once folded T422
  and saw the flop was T44. The final runout was T44KK and a player
  with KT made the best possible full house and would have won
  my stack.

STRADDLE: A no-look bet posted from under the gun. If there's the usual
  situation of a $1 and $3 blind posted, and no other money in the pot,
  the amount of the straddle must be between $6 and $10.

TABLE GAMES: Player-versus-the-house casino games, such as Roulette
  and Blackjack. Some of these are poker themed; Caribbean Stud and
  Three Card Poker. These games are of interest to us only because
  $10 chips from table game players sometimes enter the real poker games.

TABLE YOUR HAND: To show your holding at Showdown. You can table your
  hand earlier if there's NO MORE ACTION. Also called SPREAD YOUR HAND.

TAHITM: (DRS) Acronym for There's Another Hand In Two Minutes. Pronounced like
  the country "Tahiti". This word is a useful reminder that there's
  another hand coming along soon and you don't have to overcommit your
  chips to a hand when you're not a strong chance of winning.
  TAHITM so wait for the next one.

THIN DRAW: A drawing hand with only a few outs. A gutshot straight
  (4 outs, sometimes only 3 outs if there's a flush possible)
  is a thin draw. The opposite of a FAT DRAW.

THREE PAIR: To match all three flop cards. Three Pair isn't a final
  five-card poker hand, but it's an intermediate poker hand that means
  that if any of the flop cards repeats on the turn, you'll have a full
  house.

TOP AND BOTTOM: To have both the top pair and bottom pair after the flop.

TOP FORTY (DRS): The cards dealt at a full-ring 10-handed deal are the
  Top Forty cards of the deck. This means that a card you need on the turn
  or river is quite likely to be in someone else's holding and not
  on the turn or the river. It also means that you often hit your sets
  with the CASE card.

TOP TWO: To have the top two pair after the flop.

TRIPS: To match a BOARD PAIR with one of your own cards. Trips is
  different from a SET, which is where you match one of the board cards
  with a POCKET PAIR of your own. On a flop of KK6, AKT5 has trip Kings.
  On a flop of K94, 9987 has a SET of Nines.

TURN: (1) The fourth community card in FLOP GAMES
      (2) The round of betting following the fourth community card being shown.
      I called the betting round the TURNSTREET.

TURNBOARD: (DRS) The four community cards after the turn is produced.
  "The flop came 986, the Turnboard was 986K and the FINALBOARD was 986K2"

TURNSTREET: (DRS) The round of betting following the TURN being revealed.
  This is a word I made up so you know I'm taking about the betting round
  and not the fourth community card.

UNDERCALL: (DRS) To call all-in when you have less than the call amount.
  If the bet is $135 and I have $80 left in my stack, I announce
  "undercall Eighty Dollars". The still-active players will have
  a side pot of $55 each to contest; I'm playing for the main pot.

UPCARD: A card visible to all players. FLOP GAMES like Omaha have
  Five shared Upcards.

VALUE BET: A bet on the river with the probable best hand. This is much
  more of a Holdem concept than Omaha. In PLO you have to be very
  careful with betting non-nut hands, since the Nuts is often out there.

WET FLOP: A co-ordinated flop where it looks like players might have a
  straight already and good flush draws. JT9 2 hearts and AKJ are Wet flops.
  Flops with 2 or 3 Broadway cards in them are pretty wet.

WHEEL: The lowest possible straight, 5432A.

WHEEL CARDS: Low cards that can make a Wheel straight, 2,3,4,5. Also BABIES.

WHIFF: To completely miss the flop. I think this term comes from the
  noise that something flying through the air that completely misses you
  makes. "I had AAT9 all red and the flop was 543 two spades; I whiffed".

WRAP: A wide straight draw with more outs than a traditional Open Ended
  Straight Draw.

