HORROR POTS

Last updated: 20200622

A Horror Pot is a big multiway pot of at least $400 where
you've got to pay over the odds to stay in to see the river,
but the pot is so huge you feel like staying in. If you fold and
the river brings your winning card, you'll be horrified
as you see this enormous pot pushed to somebody else and
you realise that if you'd bravely stayed in all that money
would now be yours.

Horror Pot decisions occur on the Turn.
You have a strong sense that with so many players still in
the hand
(a) The guy doing all the betting has top set
(b) if the Board doesn't pair and the river isn't
    the Brick of all Bricks, the lead will change and
(c) if you fold and discover in the runout that you
    would've won, you'll be crushed.

There's a human tendancy in relation to Poker called "Resulting".
If you make a decision and you win a pot you think you've played
great poker. If you make a decision and lose a pot then you think
you've played bad poker. This is a tendency I'm prone to myself.

People who want to Rabbit Hunt all the time are Resulting. In a Horror
Pot, there's still players left in the pot so you get to see
the river.

In a Horror Pot your correct decision on the Turn is to fold,
but the pot is so big and alluring that you pay that big amount
to stay alive in this pot and see if the river wins it for you.

I've won more than my share of Horror Pots because I stay in them
more than most players. Normally I stay in with a straight draw,
somethings as thin as a gutshot; sometimes
a double gutshot, that I'm confident will be a winner if it hits.

It's up to you how you play the Horror Pots. Normally I get
sucked into them by overpaying preflop with an iffy holding
that flops enough straight action to call a pot sized bet
on the flop. The turn misses but doesn't pair or flush the board.
Now there's a much bigger bet to call if I want to see the river.
There's still a few players in this pot so the turn bet is much
larger than usual. The flop bet was $40 but got three callers
(building the pot from $40 to $200) and now the turn bet is $200.

Now I'm in the Horror Pot situation; this has become a huge pot
and the final pot will be so big that if I spike my winning
card I'll be stacking it for two minutes. Action on me, $200 to call?
I call!!

A Horror Pot is like a Party Pot where lots of active players
still have a good amount of money in their stacks on the turnstreet,
and the leader (with a hand like top set) blasts a pot sized bet.
Party Pots are lots of people jumping in the pool Preflop, Horror Pots
are lots of people facing the choice of having to commit
their stack on the turn. It's a very, very expensive Party.
