KNOW YOUR RIGHTS

Last updated: 20180827

Poker dealers do their best to run a good and fair game,
but their main interest is in keeping the game running
quickly. Just like the players, the dealers make mistakes.
You have to stick up for your rights at the poker table.
The following rules and issues of poker are worth keeping
in mind. I've sorted them from most frequent to least frequent.

1) English only at the table
----------------------------

There's a lot of Asian players and they'll talk to each
other in Chinese if they're allowed to. They're not.
Not even between hands or during the next deal. A good
supervisor will enforce this. Collusion in poker and
information passing can happen at any time during a
poker session.

2) One player to a hand
-----------------------

Unless a player is obviously folding or is already all-in
(no further action on his part) he shouldn't be showing
his card to other players, and NEVER to other active players.
There's an Omaha tradition of flashing your cards to folded
players on your right, just before you fold. Often you're
frustratingly showing a good holding that completely whiffed.
You have JJT9 Double Red and the flop comes A84 all black.

Sometimes a player is still thoughtful and is flashing his cards
to others without having committed to folding. The other players
remember what they folded and might give information like
"I folded a six, don't draw to that" or "I folded three diamonds,
that flush draw is no use". Whenever this looks like happening,
I'll announce "One player to a hand!"

3) Players have to read their own Board
   and decide to Table their hand.
---------------------------------------

Reading the Board yourself is a critical skill in both Holdem
and Omaha. If you table your hand, "Cards speak" and the
dealer and other players can assist in finding your best
poker hand, but until you table your hand, you're on your own.

Sometimes I've bet on the river and been called and I table
a far-from-Nut hand like a so-so two pair. The calling player
is looking at his hand for a while, not wishing to show a loser
if he can't find a winner. Some dealers, to speed things up,
will mention the winning cards and winning hands possible on this
board, and assist the caller in his tabling decision.

These dealers are COMPLETELY OUT OF LINE. It is the player's
responsibility to read the board at every stage, including the
finalboard. It is solely the player's decision to table his hand
or not.

If you're the winner of a pot, and the calling player flashed
his cards to others but still folded, never ask what his cards
were, even though you have a right to that information under
the "Show one, Show All" stipulation. In some rule interpretations,
if the winner asks for a mucked showdown hand to be revealed then
THAT HAND BECOMES LIVE AGAIN! There's a tiny but non-zero chance
that the mucker has folded a winner or a hand that could split the pot.
Just accept this pot and stack your chips.

The Star have a very generous (in my view) interpretation of The Muck,
your hand isn't dead until it touches other mucked cards.
You can toss your cards onto the table face down, in an obvious
attempt to fold your hand, and still change your mind and get your cards
turned over, provided they haven't yet been reaped by the dealer
and added to the muck. And you still get to win a showdown! I don't agree
with this at all, but it's their Casino and that's their ruling.

4) Three Hundred Max Buyin
--------------------------

Some of the maniacs and Five-Five Refugees sometimes try to buy in
for more than the $300 maximum. If they've got a pitiful $8 or so
in $1 chips I don't mind if they add on three black $100 chips but if they
have as little as $15 and try to add on to $315 then I'll stop them
and get it rounded down to $300. Rules are rules.

5) Check the Showdown winner
----------------------------

Take a moment to check the Showdown winner is indeed the winning
hand you think it is, and remember 2+3 Showdown rules. Check all
5 cards of the winning hand. There will be social pressure on you
to move the game along to the next hand but your money is at stake
and you've got the right to be absolutely sure that the other player
has won this showdown fairly and squarely.

Star have an excellent policy where the pot isn't awarded until the
losing player surrenders his cards. If a called player says
"Nut flush" and shows down an obvious Nut flush, he still isn't awarded
the pot until the caller gives up his cards, even though the table
can all see that the called player with the Nut flush is the winner
of this pot.

A lot of the dealers arrange the four tabled cards of the called player
so that the two being used are next to the board and the two unused
cards are sideways behind it. This helps you check that the shown
down hand is indeed what it looks like.

6) Call for the camera
----------------------

If you think a pot has been awarded incorrectly, and you'd tabled
a hand that in your opinion was the winner, you can call for the
camera. The Star has excellent security cameras recording the
action from all angles, and you have the right to ask for a hand
to be reviewed.

This is a lengthy process that stops all action at the table for
about 20 minutes so you should only do it in extreme circumstances.
I've called for the camera twice in my life, and both times I've lost.
The hands all involved what I call "muck integrity", at the showdown
I've tabled a good hand, the calling player chucks his cards in (face up)
in a folding motion but it turns out he had a winner and the dealer
and other players have helped him find that ("cards speak") and he's been
awarded a huge pot that should have been mine. A lot of casinos
and home games are a lot more strict with the muck than The Star is,
normally if there's any chance a mucking player could have won he
gets it no matter how much he says "I fold" and "You win" and losing
words like that.

I'm repeating some of the stuff I wrote in Point 3, players must
decide on their own to table their hand, but I feel strongly about this.

If you follow the advice in Step 5 (Check the Showdown Winner) carefully
you should never need to call for the camera because you're unsure
the winner had the hand you thought he did. Those times I called for
the camera, I was the Called player who showed first, not the Calling
Player who shows second.

7) Your right to leave
---------------------

Very occasionally something will happen at the table that you
don't agree with and even after pointing it out and getting a
ruling from a supervisor or calling for the camera, the decision
goes against you.

This is very upsetting in poker and like it or not, admit it
or not, you're now on tilt. It's now time to exercise the
fundamental right of cash poker - your right to leave.
Call it a day.

You have a right to leave a poker table any time you're not in
a hand. You don't have to post your blind because it's your turn
next hand, you don't have to stick around because it's 5am and
if you leave the game will break and nobody else will be able
to keep playing. You should wish the other players good luck
and verbally announce your departure.
