ESSENTIAL POKER BOOKS

Last updated: 20190127

I own over 150 books on Poker and Gambling. Unfortunately
just having so many books doesn't make me a champion player,
but I'm still proud of my poker library. The books
can be divided into some broad categories:

- Limit Holdem: Sklansky, Malmuth, Bob Ciaffone

- Gambling and History of Poker: works by Al Alvarez, Peter Alson,
Des Wilson, Ben Mezrich, Paul Mendelson

- Player biographies and autobiographies: stars like Stu Ungar,
Mike Matusow, David "Devilfish" Ulliott, Matt Maroon, Annie Duke.

- No Limit Tournament books: Phil Gordon, Dan Harrington, Arnold Snyder
John Vorhaus, Lee Nelson, Daniel Negreanu

- No Limit Cash books: Dan Harrington, Tommy Angelo, Angel Largay

- All games books: Doyle Brunson, Phil Hellmuth, Lou Kreiger

- Online Poker books

- Older games: Home games, Stud, Draw

- Tells, Psychology, Poker-as-a-business books: Mike Caro, Dusty Schmidt

- Omaha books

I consider a few Holdem and general poker books to be authoritive
and I'm quoting from some in this book. Super/System 2 is my
go-to all-formats poker book, I also include the Harrington on Holdem
three-volume series (NLH tournaments) and the Harrington on Cash Games
two-volume series (NLH cash). It doesn't matter if you don't
own these books, but if you do you can look up some of my references
and get a fuller sense of some NLH and betting concepts that I
refer to.


The number of Omaha books in my library is quite small,
and I buy any Omaha book I can reasonably get my hands on.
When I say "reasonably", I expect a good book will be priced
in the $30-$70 range. Some of the Omaha books advertised
online retail for $1500 to $3000, which is far too much to pay
for a book. I'll talk about these at the end of my survey
of the affordable Omaha books.

I don't have many Omaha books because there aren't yet many good
Omaha books, apart from Slotboom, Hwang and Jockusch
who we'll meet shortly. I mentioned in the "Why Play PLO?" chapter
that one of the PLO advantages is that there are fewer learning
resources and they're harder to find. That means it's harder
to work on your game than it is in NLH. This helps you as an
Omaha player. There's probably 10 good No Limit Cash books
that players can easily find; and only 2 or 3 good Omaha books.
It's harder for lazy players to catch up. They're unlikely
to stumble across a good Omaha book just browsing
at a bookstore, and if they buy some Omaha books randomly online,
they might not get the best ones for PLO Omaha High Cash.

CHAMPIONSHIP OMAHA by T.J. Cloutier with Tom McEvoy
1999, Cardsmith Publishing
(The book has since been republished by Cardoza Publishing
 but I believe it is substantially the same book)

This is an excellent book with advice you can use and a book
I return to whenever I feel I need to go "back to basics" and
winning, ABC Pot Limit Omaha.

Unfortunately the book mixes Limit Omaha High and Limit Hi-Lo Omaha
advice into just about every page, and also Tournament advice.
And like Super System 1, there's a few pages on "Insurance"
which are now out of date; a modern book would provide
good suggestions on when to run it once, twice or three times.

Since my book is about 1/3 PLO and the casino only runs it
once, I'm not giving any strategy advice on running it multiple times.

Even though there are chapters specifically on each game type,
Cloutier and McEvoy can't help saying "in Hi-Lo you'd to this" or
"if this was in a tournament you'd make this adjustment".

T.J. Cloutier coined the Omaha term "Danglers". He's just about
my favourite player from the very early days of the World Series.

My favourite WSOP video is the 2004 WSOP Razz final
table, where TJ beats John Juanda, Howard Lederer and Dutch Boyd
to capture a bracelet. There's some world-class whingeing and
complaining from all of the players. Special comments guy
Norman Chad is in fine form in this show.
The railbird action from Scott Fischman and "The Crew" is
another highlight. Look it up on YouTube (use search terms
WSOP Razz 2004) and enjoy the action.

OMAHA HOLDEM POKER by Bob Ciaffone
1984. "Millenial edition" 1999.

This slim book (106 pages) is much older than Cloutier/McEvoy
but does split up the different games advice properly. Limit
Omaha was much more the game in those old days and the book
reflects this. Worth a read, you can knock it off in just
a few hours of reading and even faster if you avoid
the Omaha/8 material.

Sick of losing runner-runner, Ciaffone suggests a game "T-Omaha"
where the turn and river are placed above and below the third
flop card (forming a sideways "T" shape) and you can't use
both of them to make your final five-card hand. This would make
the Omaha 2+3 Showdown rule even harder to understand for new players.

The showdown rule would be (2+3F,2+2F+1TR) where 3F means "all three
flop cards", 2F means "two flop cards of your choosing" and 1TR
means "one of the turn and river, but not both".

Ciaffone probably gets to play this variation in his home games only.
The idea never caught on.

Cloutier/McEvoy cover the same ground as Ciaffone, and in my opinion
do a better job. This small book is not essential to have
in your PLO Library. If you can pick it up cheaply, go right
ahead, but it's not essential.

HOW GOOD IS YOUR POT LIMIT OMAHA? by Stewart Reuben
2003. D&B Poker

Stewart Reuben, whose Christian name is spelled a way I disagree
with, is a High Stakes London player who has written many poker books,
including "Pot Limit and No Limit Poker" with Bob Ciaffone.
Inspired by "How good is your chess?" which puts you in the mind
of a grandmaster considering his next chess move.
Reuben wrote this book and "How good is your Pot
Limit Holdem?". At each betting decision, you get a range of options
(pass = fold, call, raise a bit, raise the pot) and you get marked
at the end for your decision.

I've worked through 21 of the 55 hands, not enough of the holdings
are folded preflop for my liking, and in Hand Number 16 Reuben
plays 6332 (which can't even flop MIDDLE set let alone top set)
and loses to QJ on the runout QQ3J7. I'll revisit this book soon.

Reuben's hands normally involve all the players having Megastacks,
which isn't the case in 1/3 PLO. Once again, this is
not an essential book to have in your PLO library.

SECRETS OF PROFESSIONAL POT-LIMIT OMAHA by Rolf Slotboom
2006. D&B Poker

The bible on the Shortstack approach to poker. Slotboom recommends
sitting on the immediate right of the most agressive player on the
table, and having a short stack compared to the other big stacks
on the table. You get many opportunites to limp-raise all-in preflop,
by letting the aggressive player bet the pot and then re-raising the
pot after a bunch of callers in the middle. Often you'll get protection
on later streets in the hand and occasionally win because of that.

For reasons I explain in this book, I recommend a min-and-a-bit buyin
of $150 in The Star 1/3 PLO game. This is a short enough to
use shortstacking with, while still giving you enough chips to
bluff with on those times that you miss. Also $150 gives you good sized
side pots in the multi-way hands where absolute shortstacks of $100
buyins have taken their chance. Sometimes you'll lose the main pot
but pick up enough in the side pots to make things worthwhile. I think
a buyin of $125, $150 or $175 is better than a $100 min buyin.
$200 is a bit on the high side.

Some of Slotboom's "cash out and join a new table as a new
shortstack" recommendations aren't possible in live poker, you can
only jump around like that on the Internet. His shortstacking
advice is great for getting your buyin from $150 up to $400 or so.

SECRETS OF PROFESSIONAL POKER VOLUME 1 by Rolf Slotboom
2008. D&B Poker

A collection of Rolf's magazine columns. I feel like doing a similar
book with all of my Australian Poker Weekly Columns from 2008-2011.
Rolf's book is well organised into columns on Limit Texas Holdem,
No Limit Holdem for Limit players, Limit Holdem for No Limit Players
and finally (and of most interest to us) 21 columns on Pot Limit Omaha.

This is some of the best article writing on PLO, and a model I use
for my own poker report series, "Lessons from Sessions". The No Limit
Holdem articles are also fantastic.

Despite the title suggesting this is Volume 1, and the preface promising
a Volume 2, there is no Volume 2. Don't worry, there's plenty of other
Slotboom books worth reading.

POT-LIMIT OMAHA POKER: THE BIG PLAY STRATEGY by Jeff Hwang
2008 Lyle Stuart Books

An outstanding book that shows you the starting hands needed to win
the really huge pots at PLO. This book is one of the most fun books
I've ever read on poker, it could be called "The Joy of PLO". There's
none of the Limit Omaha High or Tournament advice that pollute
other Omaha books. Most of the book is PLO High advice, there's
also a lot of Limit Omaha/8 content and Pot Limit Omaha/8 content,
which I haven't needed to read.

There's extensive analysis of Straights in Omaha, and the kind
of holdings that can make powerful winning straights. Make sure
you read that chapter and work through it. Understanding straights
properly will give you a real edge in PLO.

This book is the single best PLO book on the market.

POT-LIMIT OMAHA: UNDERSTANDING WINNING PLAY by William Jockusch
2009 Two Plus Two Publishing

An even more thorough book than Jeff Hwang's, and one entirely
devoted to PLO High Cash. It's in the familiar Two Plus Two
font and format; it's as thorough and groundbreaking as
one of the best No Limit Holdem Cash/Tournament books,
David Slansky/Ed Miller's "No Limit Holdem: Theory
and Practice".

Like Bob Ciaffone, Jockusch can't help suggesting some game
changes. Ciaffone's proposed changes stop runner-runner suckouts,
Jockusch suggests changes to take away the Shortstack Advantage.
Jockusch wants players to start with a good minimum stack size
each deal and also for players blasted out of side pots by
huge bets to still be eligible for the main pots they've matched.
Don't expect either of these changes to ever be implemented.

Since I take notes at the table and am obviously a student of
PLO who works on his game, players sometimes ask me what
Omaha books they should read. My reply is normally this:
"I'll give you two names. You should get their books.
Jeff Hwang and William Jockusch". That's all the advice
I give, but that should be enough to set a player
on the path of Omaha wisdom. I offer you the same advice.
Get Jeff Hwang, get William Jockusch and get Rolf Slotboom.

STRATEGIES TO BEAT SMALL STAKES POT-LIMIT OMAHA by Matthias Plum
2017 D&B Poker

This book has an enticing name but turns out to be entirely
focussed on 6-max online games. It's not that suited to
Full-Ring Live PLO. It's presented in a 28-lesson
format (learn Omaha a lesson per day in a month). If you're
going to play a lot of 6-Max online you should get it.

MEGA-EXPENSIVE BOOKS by Various Authors

When Super System came out in 1978, it was priced at $100.
Doyle Brunson felt that if people wanted these poker secrets,
they might as well pay good money for it. $100 was a lot of
money in 1978 for a book and the 2018 equivalent of a super
expensive book which hopefully reveals poker secrets is $3,000!

Here is a list of some other Omaha books and the exorbitant
prices being asked for them. I can't afford them.

Pot Limit Omaha Course From Rags to Riches: Kim Ishida: $2996
How to crush Pot-Limit Omaha Cash by Viktor: $2988
Advanced PLO Play: The Workbook by Tri Slowhabit Nguyen: $634.95
How to crush Pot-Limit Omaha by Viktor: $168
The PLO Book: Transitioning from NLHE to PLO: $89.90


YouTube Videos, Training Sites and Forums
=========================================

In the last few years there's been an explosion of poker videos
on YouTube. The most successful YouTube poker personality is
Doug Polk, whose specialty is Heads Up No Limit Holdem. Polk
has a commercial poker training site, upswingpoker.com.
There have been a few of these over the years, including
"Card Runners" and "Card Academy".

The two main voices in YouTube PLO are Joey "ChicagoJoey" Ingram
and Fernando "JNandez87" Habegger. A bit like the Matthias Plum
book, the YouTube videos are mostly geared towards succeeding
in the online environment.

Fernando Habegger worked for Doug Polk's PLO training course,
but the two had a falling out (over money, naturally) and
for a while made YouTube videos attacking each other. Habegger
has now gone his own way and makes PLO videos and training content
under his own name.

The YouTube videos are free content steering interested people
into paid online training courses. I haven't undertaken any
online training in poker, but I have enjoyed the YouTube videos.

Someone I very much enjoy and respect in the No Limit Holdem
world (both tournaments and cash) is Jonathan Little.

For Internet message boards, the Two Plus Two
forums are the best regarded. They're
at https://forumserver.twoplustwo.com.

Years ago there was an active Australian poker forum which I
used and contributed to very actively, called PokerNetwork.
Sadly it's no longer active, though the old posts can still be
found at http://www.pokernetwork.com/forums/main-noticeboard/
