NEEDLING

Last updated: 20180816

Needling is the social art of comments at the table.
It normally occurs after a hand and is said by disgruntled
losers to the winning player, criticising his or her play
of the hand. I'm frequently the target of needles.

Needles are the poker equivalent of sports sledges and
standup comedy heckles and serve the same function. 
To put you off your game. To ruin your concentration.
To upset you. To get you angry and emotional.
The king of needling in professional
poker right now is the English player Will Kassouf.

Shung Joe!
=========

If there's Asian players at the table, and especially
Aunties, the winner is often deried as a "Shung Joe".
This is Mandarin Chinese for banana. I'm a bit sensitive to
being called a banana but I've got to toughen up and
put up with it. Poker's a tough game, a poker table
is a tough environment and other players will try
plenty of tricks to put you off your game.

Needling is one of those tricks. While there's some smiles
and laughs and cameraderie between the regulars at
a table, people are trying to win your money. Let me
remind you of a brutal poker truth: These People
Aren't Your Friends. The dollars you're winning
aren't coming from the casino, they're coming from
the other players.

Send it!
========

When I win a pot I say "Send it!" to the dealer, an instruction
to pass that nice big pile of money to the rightful owner. Me.
It's a pretty stupid thing to say but plenty of poker
players have a catchphrase they use after winning a pot.
Australia's 2005 WSOP Main Event Champion Joe Hachem
is famous for his phrase "Pass the Sugar!". Young guys
I played my first games of club poker with would say
"Ship it!" when they won pots and gradually the gap
between the words disappeared and they simply said "Shipput"
sounding like a frog. A happy, poker-winning frog.

I wanted to say something similar to Shipput but I
wanted a phrase of my own. So "Send it!" was born.
Some of the regulars welcome me to the table with
"Hi, Sendit!" and I really like that. I sometimes
get on the 1/3 PLO waiting list using the alias
"Sendit". A few people say "Send it!" when they win
pots against me and yes, it is a bit of a needle when
the pot's going the other way. It does seem to add
to the pain of a lost pot.

Some standard needles
=====================

The simplest needle is for the losing player to
say "Nice hand, sir" in as sarcastic a voice as he can
get away with, particularly if he's been bad-beated by
a very ordinary hand that clearly didn't belong in this pot.
A normal fold and acknowledgment of the winner is
"nice hand" without the sarcasm and usually
without the "Sir". It's said in the same tone of voice
as a losing player admits "Well played" to his opponent.

I gutshot straigts in PLO a lot; either Nutshotting or in the
Horror Pots. When I show the winner, people can see from 
looking at all my four cards that I didn't actually have
a big straight draw of 13 outs or 9 outs, I didn't even have
the Open Ended Straight Draw of 8 outs, I had a crappy
gutshot and if there was obvious flush chances out there
I had a trashy 3-out gutshot draw.

"He had the full gutshot" a regular said about
one of my weird winners and the phrase caught on.
Sometimes it's said mistakenly on hands where I had
a double gutshot. I never correct the record; I want
the other players to think I'll chase longshot draws
and that I'm even looser than I actually am.

One of my favourite players came up with the
post-hand analysis "The hand played itself" on a
really badly played hand that somehow won a pot
and certainly did NOT play itself. This is a great
needle that I've taken on board myself.

Finally there's the "my stack's bigger than yours"
needle; when you're having a great night, you're
about to cash out as a big winner and the target
of your needle hasn't got anything going.
You ask him for a count of his chips and when he
says "I've got one-hundred-and-forty" you reply
"oh.. I've got over twelve hundred myself". This
is the cash poker equivalent of the football
player's "Look at the Scoreboard" needle.

My favourite sports needle comes from
Ashes cricket. Mark Waugh was trying to put
an incoming English batsmen off his game, a
guy named James Ormond. Waugh said "there's
no way you're good enough to play for England".
Ormond replied "Perhaps not. But at least
I'm the best cricketer in my family".
