NUTSHOTTING

Last updated: 20231108

Everyone knows that a gutshot straight draw is a thin draw
with just 4 outs, and unless you're getting a ridiculous
10 to 1 on your call, you're going well against the odds.

I'll sometimes take this longshot call in Omaha on the flop.
Because the betting is Pot Limit, the flop bet isn't too
large and if I hit my magic out I'll be able to win loads more
money. If I put in a big bet on the turn with a made
straight and I get called by two pair hands or flush draws
with just one card to come, the callers are the people
making the mistakes.

I call this "Nutshotting"- taking a gutshot draw to a
Nut Straight. Other poker writers have come up with
the word "Nutshot" as well.

To call with a Nutshot Draw, I want as many of the following conditions
to be true as possible:

1) My draw is to the Nuts, or if it hits I'm confident beyond
   argument that my hand is the winner
2) If I hit my draw on the turn, I have a redraw to an even nuttier hand.
   This is typically a chance at an even higher straight.
3) I have enough chips behind that if my draw hits on the turn I can
   put in a huge bet to charge any sets and flush draws and two pair hands
   the maximum to try and outdraw me (and hopefully miss)
4) I have good reason to believe that if I hit, the whole pot will be mine.
   I won't be splitting this pot with the same straight.
5) There's no board pair on the flop, and the flop isn't onesuit. Don't
   draw to straights when higher rung hands are already possible. A rainbow
   flop is best. Flush draws are the mortal enemies of straight draws, and
   a flush beats a straight.
6) There's some other passengers in this pot, and if I call on the flop
   there will be a cascade of callers behind me, adding value when I hit
   and allowing me to put in an even bigger turn bet if I hit. Since
   there's still me and three or more other players in the pot, if I
   hit the nutshot on the turn and bet the pot, there's a good chance
   this big bet will be called by at least two players.
7) My hand's got a bit more value then just the nutshot. I might
   already have a pair that could luckboat by the river, or a pocket
   pair that could spike a set. Runner-runner flush chances also
   count as a tiny bit more value.
8) I won't get re-raised by a later actor. Either I'm last to call and
   my call closes the betting, or my best judgement is that everyone
   else will flat call or fold, as I hope for in condition (6).
   If I've got the Rolf Seat, and the Most Aggressive Player has made
   the pot-sized bet on the flop, I often get to close the action with
   my call and don't have to worry about later actors. So the Rolf Seat
   often gives me "close the action" advantage on both the preflop and
   flop streets. I also get the "value" call where I close off the
   action and call after two (or even more!) other callers.

Here's two example of Nutshot draws I took, from my session notes
of 2nd March 2018. In the first hand I have Q776, four players have
paid $10 to take the flop which comes Q53 two spades. I don't have
spades myself, I've missed my 777 set and my top pair, while
adding a bit of value to my hand, isn't going to be an unimproved winner.

There's a $40 pot bet behind my check, and two callers when action returns
to me. I'm a bit leery of the spades, but most of my Nutshot conditions
are present. My draw is to the Nuts. If I spike the 4, I should be the
only player with the 76 straight (I have two Sevens in my own holding).
This is one part of Omaha where I do use Blocker Theory; the fact I
have two sevens means it's very unlikely another player has the
required 76 if the turnboard comes Q534.

I've got $190 left which I can blast all in with on the turn. With three
players along for the ride I should get paid off if I hit. Also my call
here closes off the betting so I make the call and I'm happy I did when
the turn comes a black Four, but it's Clubs not Spades. My $190
jam is called by two players, one with the flush draw and the other with
a lower flush draw and the beaten A2345 wheel straight. The river is a red
Eight and I pull in a big pot.

I've made a lot more than 10 to 1 on that $40 flop call. I won
the $160 that the pot was when I was calling into it
(only $10 of which was mine from the preflop action) and
another $380 on top of that from the two callers on the turn.
I called $40 and won $530, on a 10 to 1 shot. Nutshot!!

If I'd had even more money behind to bet on the river
I would have got a crying call on the river from the low straight,
though not the missed flush draw. The final board is Q5348, so A2
has to call because the only hands that beat him are the hands 62 and 76
which both look pretty unlikely; I could very well be jamming with a set
on this board.

In my second Nutshot draw, I'm playing the co-ordinated but low
holding of 6432. The flop comes AJ5. Normally these 9-out
"pair one of your three cards" straight draws aren't as good as they
look, but here my 6 gives me redraws to higher straights if I can spike
a 2, 3 or 4 on the turn. Also since this draw is 9 outs it's a lot more
outs than a "exactly this rank" 4-out gutshot. There's one
catch in this hand, though. Because Ace wraps high and low for straights,
I'm going to get out of this pot if the turn card is a K,Q or T as
I could be drawing dead against a made Broadway.

I make a Nutshot call on the flop and the turn comes a repeat Jack,
making the turnboard of AJ5J. I get out of the way as the two other
players get their stacks in.

AJxy crushes J5xy. This is a cooler for J5, who has just learned a valuable
lesson in what happens when you flop bottom two pair in Omaha.

Don't nutshot to Broadway
-------------------------

I almost never nutshot to Broadway. A lot of people (correctly)
play hands with Broadway cards in them so there's likely to
be fewer than 4 outs for my draw, the cards that I need are
mostly in people's holdings already. What's already a thin
draw is wafer-thin here. Also, it's quite likely that if my
Broadway draw does come in, I'll split the pot with someone
or be freerolled as they have Broadway with two-pair or
Broadway with a flush draw.

Most of my nutshots are with connectors in the midrange rank;
6,7,8,9,T.

Gutshots declined
----------------

Here's two hands where I declined to take a gutshot chance to a
flop bet. In both hands the gutshot came on the turn but I'm
happy I was out of the action. Both hands are from the megastack
no-upper-buyin-limit 1/2/5 game at Casino Canberra.

In the first hand I have 7554 on a T73 flop. The pair of 7s isn't
doing me much but if a 6 comes on the turn I'll have a sneaky straight.
But when I double checked the nuttiness of it; I saw that a 6 on the turn
makes someone with 98 (who flopped a great T987 OESD) a higher, nut straight.
I fold to the bet; there's two callers and when the turn does indeed come
a 6, the bettor happily blasts out another pot-sized bet and the two other
players in the hand both fold. I'm confident our bettor had the nut
straight here, and a nice gutshot fold by me on the flop. Notice I have
the same "non-nut" problems on each of the flops T73, 973 and 873. If
the flop was J73, a nutshot to the 6 could be taken.

In the second hand I have AT87 to a flop of QJ4 two diamonds. I don't
take the nutshot chance of the King, but two other callers do and
the turn is indeed a King. A huge bet comes in and there's one caller and
the Queen repeats and on the final board of QJ4KQ the hand is won by
Quad Queens! A very good nutshot fold by me; as I said above I rarely
nutshot to Broadway.


You don't have to play like this
--------------------------------

You might prefer not to add nutshotting to your game and that's
fine. Nutshotting is a long-odds shot, and you could argue
quite forcibly that my nutshot draws are going well against
the odds. Much of the time I get my nutshot on the turn and
lose a huge pot when the river brings the third flush card
or pairs the board; so even making the Nutshot can be a stack
killer not a stack doubler. Nutshotting may not be a winner in
a risk/reward sense. I thought long and hard about leaving
this chapter out of my book, but I have to be true to myself
and my readers and be honest about how I play, and nutshotting
is part of my game.

Omaha brings up such big draws that you don't have to play
your nutshots. TAHITM and you'll get a much better draw in the
next few hands.

There's not as much bluffing in Omaha as there is in Holdem,
you normally have to make a strong poker hand (often the nuts)
and show it down to win a pot. Paying for a Nutshot draw is
an attempt to make a winning hand, even against the odds.
You don't have to nutshot as often as I do, and you can
run through my list of Nutshotting conditions to decide
when to nutshot and when not to nutshot, but it should
be some part of your game.
