PARTY POTS

Last Updated: 20190109

Sometimes in 1/3 PLO there's 3, 4 or 5 players all-in preflop,
for amounts ranging from $40 to $170 to $300 or even more.
It takes the dealer a few minutes to set the main pot and all
the side pots correctly. Then, with no more action, the board
is quickly run and someone will win a huge main pot and someone
else might win a side pot or two. This chapter is all about
whether you should enter these Party Pots and the sort of hands
you want to have to take part in them.

Firstly you want to have a stack that's not too crushing to lose.
For me, I don't like to be in a Party Hand if my stack is more
than $170. $170 is quite a playable stack for me and I use it
better than by being all-in preflop and putting myself at
the mercy of a full Five-card runout. I play better poker
once I've seen a flop, assessed my hand, guessed at the other
hands out there still in the pot and made my play. I can't do
that in the Party Pots.

But the payoff when you win a Party Pot is enormous; it can
quadruple or quintuple your stack. There's no better feeling
than going from $140 to $550 or more in three minutes by
winning a Party Pot.

I've written in this book about two valuable but different
aspects of valuing your holding: Nuttability and Floppability.
For Party Hands, Flush Nuttability is much more important
than High Pair Nuttability. And Straight Floppability becomes
more valuable than ever.

With so many players getting to showdown, the winning hand in this
Party Pot should be a flush or a straight, or a luckboat full house.
You should be playing the high floppability hands. Single high pair
hands with a dangler probably aren't worth it, but a double-paired
hand with twice the set chances is probably worth a shot.

Even with a hand with great floppability you'll often encounter
a Dope flop or Monochrome flop that completely misses you and
you've lost your stack. This is why you don't want to have too
big a stack to lose to take part in a Party Pot. A few times I've
had a stack of $350 and been unable to join in a Party Pot and
watched with annoyance as I would have won it in the runout.
But the risk/reward isn't good enough when you have to
overcommit too big a stack on a far-from-certain outcome.
Another way of expressing this idea is that Party Pots are board-luck
gambling, not skillful Omaha hands.

Sometimes the table has three of four Party Pots each round. There's
a Five-Five Refugee looking to get a full $300 buyin in preflop,
hand after hand. Try to be patient in the face of this madness and
only join the hands you feel you'll be a chance in.

High Broadway cards with suit do well in Party Pots, combining
great Floppability with some Nuttability.

Showdowns in Party Pots can take forever as disappointed losers
with bad two pair hands wait for other players to show better hands
before they fold. If I've got a nut or near-nut hand I'll show
it as soon as the showdown action gets to my pots (I could be contesting
the main pot and the first side pot but there's extra side pots
from bigger stacks that I don't play for).

As the pot is so big the disappointed losers take a long time to fold
even once I've shown my hand. Take a few deep breaths and wait for
them to fold; it's their right to hold onto their losing holdings
for a few more seconds if they want. Some of my sweetest showdown
wins have been Party Pot wins with far from nut hands where I've
tabled my hand and had to wait ages for disappointed losers to muck.
One I remember to this day was the far-from-nut straight of 98
on the final board of QJTT8.

Good luck in your Party Pots.
