TYPICAL PLAY ON A FLUSH FLOP

Last updated: 20231129

Let's ignore stack sizes and player types for now. Often a complex
problem becomes simple if you concentrate on just a single aspect;
here we'll look at how a typical hand plays out when three cards of the
same suit flop.

Any hand that's not the Nut flush is a low confidence hand on this flop.
Don't even think about betting straights, sets or two pair hands. Stay
in as cheaply as you can with sets and 3-pair hands, fold two pair
to serious action and fold straights to just about any action.

Because of Omaha's 2+3 showdown rule, you don't make a one-card
flush if a fourth suit card comes on the turn or the river. You've
either got the flush already or you can't make one.

Omaha hands end up high on the poker ladder once all the cards are out,
and this flop has landed the possible winning hand on at least the Flush rung.
The only rungs above Flush are Full House, Quads and Straight Flush.
If the flop contains a board pair (which we'll look at in the next
chapter) then the winning hand might already be on the Full House rung
or the Quads rung).

A decent but non-nut flush becomes a check/call hand on this same-suit
flop. There's usually an all-check round; either on the flop or the
turn. If both betting rounds are checked through, it's possible a
straight might just win this hand but it's still not strong enough to bet;
it can win the pot as is, if the river betting is also checked
through. Remember that a decent or small flush is a check/call hand, so
if you bet your straight on the river, into a small pot, you simply get
snapped off by anyone with a small flush, who has the easiest of calls.

You can't bet your straight, in a small pot, because a small flush is
strong enough to check-call you in this small pot and beat you.

If there is a decent bet on the flop; the hand will narrow to two or
three or at most four runners. Typically two players each have a flush
(sometimes even three) while the other player has a set or three pair
and will see the turn to see if he can fill up. Remember if there's
betting on the flop, fold your straight.

If you do have the Nut flush, this is one of those times in Omaha
where I recommend that you don't blast full pot. Make your bet look
like a "I want to know where I'm at" bet and you're a bit scared you
might be up against a higher flush. Bet two-third to seventy percent
of the pot, which should keep in no-chance lower flushes and
full-house draws. This decent sized bet should get two-pair luckboat chance
hands out of the pot. If the board doesn't pair, bet again
moderate-strength if it's heads-up, or blast full pot if the pot is
multiway. The reason to blast full pot multiway is that with two other
players still in the pot, chances are better that one will come with
you for the ride. Often the two-pair hands drop out on the turn, and
the lower flushes (who are drawing dead) stick around just in case; which is
a fantastic result for you. You bet big on the turn because you're
toast if the board pairs, so charge the drawing players as much as you
can. If you take down the pot as it is with your big bet, that's not a
bad result for you.

The Blush
---------

If you hold the Ace of the flush suit, but you don't have a second
card of that suit, you have a bluffing opportunity because you know
nobody else has the Ace-high flush and they will be scared of losing
to the Nut flush. Facing big bets from you, villains with flushes know
that they could be facing the Nut flush and will sometimes find
what looks a good disciplined fold.

This is called the Blush - the Bluff Flush. It's the main use of
Blocker Theory in Omaha.

You'll need to credibly bet both the flop and the turn. See my advice
earlier in this chapter for how a player who *has* flopped the nut
flush bets in when he flops the Nut flush. If you give up on either
the flop or the turn, the pot might still be small on the end and your
river Blush bluff bet will probably be called.

Stack sizes are important with a Blush bluff - they need to be pretty deep.
If someone's only got a smallish amount of chips left, relative to the pot,
they might call off your river Blush bluff, and win with their lower flush.

I suggest you don't try Blush bluffs when the Ace has flopped and your
blush card is the King. Players value their Queen-high, Jack-high
and even Ten-high flushes a lot more when they see the Ace is already
on the board. On a smaller-ranked flush flop like T73, your Ace of the flush
suit gives you the Blush.

When a player with a mid-flush calls a flop bet, they're waiting to
see what happens in the betting on the turn. That's why you have to
credibly bet both streets- the second bet convinces the midflushes
that you've got that Nut flush. To be able to credibly bet both streets,
stack sizes need to be deep.

Keep an eye on the villain's pot commitment. A villain might call off
if he's pot committed or if he's got three of the flush suit in his
own holding (you can't know his holding of course). Some players just
call off when they flop flushes. This is painful when all you have it
the Blush but it's great you *do* have the real flush because you get
paid off the maximum.

I've known some bad PLO players with this single leak: they never fold
their small flushes on an unpaired finalboard. This is an enormous leak
in their game and I've seen them stack off again and again with losing
flushes.

If you've got the King-high flush; it's worthwhile raising on the flop
to put the bettor to the test. If all he has is the Blush he might
give up; if he's actually got the real Ace-high flush he might come
over the top with a re-reraise; to protect his currently-nut-hand
against board pairs. I've used this play a few times and each time the
big re-raise has come in, the re-raiser has shown me the Ace-high nut
flush. You don't have to lose your stack simply because you've flopped
a second best King-high flush.

I let other players Blush bluff me all the time, especially when the
pot is three-way. There's just too much of a chance that I've
overflushed here. Sure one of the players might be Blush bluffing, and
the other might be a set looking to fill up, but there's still a good
chance I'm drawing dead here and do I really want to stack off when I am?
I don't much care which of the two other players in the pot has
me beat, the important thing is I know I'm beat, so I'll fold and
save my stack.

Pot size control on all-flush flop
----------------------------------

Different players will have different pot-size goals on the all-flush
flop. A straight will try to keep the pot as small as possible and win
the pot as-is, if nobody else has a flush. An Ace high flush will bet
big to get value from the hand and protect against the board
pairing. A set will try to stay in cheap and win a good pot if the
board does pair. A King high flush will try to determine if his hand
is good at the moment.


