THE POKER HANDS LADDER

Last updated: 20180709

Here are the rungs on the Highest Five-Card Hand wins Poker Ladder. 
I use the word "rungs" because it's such an unusual word that whenever
you see it you know I'm talking about how strong a poker hand is.

- Straight Flush
- Four of a Kind ("Quads")
- Full House
- Flush
- Straight
- Three of a Kind ("Trips")
- Two Pair
- Pair
- High Card

A hand loses to any higher-rung hand, and also higher hands on 
the same rung. Higher-rung hands are rarer 5-card poker hands. 
Because Ace can be used in a low straight A2345 and a high straight AKQJT
there are more straights than flushes, so flushes are higher on the ladder
I hate this, if I could change one rule in poker, straights would beat
flushes.

In Holdem it's easier to draw to a flush than an open-ended straight since the
flush draw has 9 outs and the open-ended straight draw has 8 outs. Luckily,
Omaha has mega-straight draws with 9,13,17 or even 20 outs!

There's an interesting discrepancy in the ranking of full houses, flushes and 
two pairs; where the highest flush, two pair or full house wins, even though
they're more common. The hardest two pair hand in poker to get is "threes-up"
because the only way you can get that is with the five-card hand 3322x. 
Whereas "Fives-up" can be got in three ways: 5544x, 5533x, 5522x. Aces-up can
be got in 12 different ways. Same thing with "threes-full", "fives-full"
and "Aces-full".

Using the same logic, it's easier to get an Ace-high flush than it is to get 
a 7-high flush. There's only one 6-high and 5-high flush and they're both
straight flushes: 65432 and 5432A. There are only four 7-high 
flushes: 75432, 76432, 76532, 76542.

You might have heard of a game called "Deuce-to-Seven Lowball". It ranks 
hands like this. Another game where low hand wins is the Seven card stud
variation "Razz" where the nut hand is A2345 (straights and flushes don't
count in Razz). In my opinion the Razz rankings of poker hands on the same
rung are the truest indication of poker hand rarity.

"Guess what, Stuart?" I hear you ask. "I already knew the poker hand
rankings and I've got no interest in 1980s games like Draw Poker, Lowball and Razz.
Get on with the Omaha content. Oh, and you forgot to tell us that Omaha is
played with a standard 52 card deck, no jokers".

Fair comment, reader. The rest of this book will be some of the best content
on PLO Cash you can find, with special relevance to the 1/3 PLO games
at Sydney's casino, The Star. There are mentions of No Limit Holdem
cash concepts and whether they apply more, the same, less or not at all to
PLO Cash games. 

