PREFLOP STEP RAISING

Last updated: 20180613

If you're an NLH Tournament player, you might know
a preflop technique called the Sandwich Play, or Squeeze Play.
Blinds are 500/1000, most stacks 15000 - 22000. You limp for 1000
with a very aggressive player on your immediate left. He raises
(raises light, in your opinion, he's been very aggressive) to 3500
and gets 3 callers. Action returns to you, and you really think
that none of those callers are superstrong, if they were, they
would've re-raised the 3500 themselves. You now come over the top
for 12,000 and get everyone to fold. To read more about this play,
see Harrington on Holdem Volume 2 pp 22-25.

In PLO Cash the blinds are so small that players have developed
their own sneaky way to sandwich chips out of callers in the middle.
I call it Step Raising. Here's how it works; in this example the
Step Raisers are Under the Gun (UTG) and the Button. UTG makes it
$10 and there's four callers hoping to see the flop, but the Button
raises to $20. One of the blinds call but UTG min raises again to $30.
Two of those middle players call for $30 but the Button makes it $40
and UTG goes up again to $50. None of those players in the middle can
ever just call and close off the action.

When you see this happen for yourself, it really looks like the
Step Raisers are colluding. They never close off the betting unless
it suits them. The betting actually looks a lot like 10/20 Limit poker
betting; except in 10/20 Limit Poker there's a cap on how many raises
that can be done on any street, when it isn't heads up already.
Call to 10, 1st raise to 20, 2nd raise to 30, cap it at 40. There's no
cap in preflop betting in PLO.

It always seems to be Asian guys step raising this way. It's really annoying
to the squeezed players. It could be stamped out with a rule
change: "all preflop raises must be the maximum of full pot" but I can't
see the Casino making this change. I mention in the "My Poker Library"
chapter that several Omaha writers have proposed rule changes to Omaha
that have no hope of being implemented. "All preflop raises must be
the maximum of full pot" is my futile rule change.

The Step Raisers often sit close to each other at the table, either right
next to each other or with just one or two seats between them. When
an empty seat opens they might even move so they're next to each other.
This maximises the number of people who'll get sandwiched by their
step raising. Imagine if the step raising is done by the small blind and
the big blind - there's up to a full 8 players caught in the middle.

Sometimes in PLO you'll call a preflop bet to $10 and get an easy fold
when it's pot raised and pot re-raised behind you. It's easy to fold T977
for $10 when it comes back to you as a $110 call, but not so easy when
it's $10 come back to you for $30. But if there's step raising going on 
you're often not going to see the flop for $30. You call the $30, another
player calls but then there's another step raise for $40 and the
first raiser now makes it $50. If you call the $50 you're just throwing
more of your chips into the Sandwich.

I once stuck around with Aces with two guys Step Raising, when they'd had
enough preflop Step Raising the flop came AT4. I flat called the 
first player's bet, there was a post-flop Step Raise and it was only when 
action returned to me that I raised the pot. (Step Raising is extremely 
rare after the Flop). I got called by just one of these clowns and I 
won a monster pot. That extra little bit from the other Step Raiser on
the flop was a real sweet part of my win.
