SCENARIOS

Last updated: 20190129

1) You have $130, a bit down from your buyin of $150.
You're in position with KKJ3, King high hearts, in a 5-way pot of $50.
The flop is QT3 all spades. All players check and so do you. The turn
is the 9 of spades, making you a King-high straight on an all-spades
board. Again four players check and you bet $30, getting one fold, one
caller, and two folds. The river is the Ten of Diamonds and on the
final board of QT39T the first-to-act player bets $50.
He's got about $85 behind. What's your play?

ANSWER: This is a clear fold. The Bettor either flopped the flush or
has rivered a full house; probably by luckboating a QT two pair into TTTQQ,
though it's possible the Bettor flopped a low-confidence Set (all-spade
flop) and can only come out betting now that the board has paired.
You can't beat either the flush or the full house so just fold.

Don't even think about raising, you'll just be giving more money away.

2) Under the gun 4-handed in a $24 pot you've got KKT4 two clubs
and you get the flop K94 with the bottom two cards clubs. What's
your play?

ANSWER: This pot isn't big enough to blast off other players with a
$24 pot sized bet so I'd look for a check-raise here. Your main threat
is an inside Straight draw from a hand QJT, or sometimes the Ace-high
club draw, which you have two blockers to. Go for the Check Raise.

2.1) You check and there's a pot bet of $24, a fold, a caller and action
returns to you. What now?

ANSWER: Raise the pot. This should blast out Straight draws, you have
blockers against the Nut flush draw and if you're up against a lower
set like 999 or 444 they'll probably commit their stacks while
drawing to one out (the 999 set) or drawing dead (the 444 set). Remember
that if the board pairs on the turn the action will slow right down.
The time to make money on this hand is now. You'd love to get 1 on 1
here, as a huge favourite.

It's worth getting heads up because with two other players in the hand
you could be up against straight chances and flush chances. By getting
heads up you can take the number of cards that beat you from 18 down
to 7 or so, strongly increasing your chances of winning. A lot of
non-board-pair turn cards can beat you, and if the board does pair
you'll lose your action.

FIXME: Add an "avoid step raising" preflop example.
