SESSIONS

Last updated: 20180816

Cash poker is played in sessions. Your poker sessions starts
with your arrival on the casino floor and ends with your
departure from the casino floor.

Breathe in
==========

Some players try to hit the ground running and get their stack
committed in their first, second or third hand. This is great
when it works (it's always fun to double up or triple up early)
but very expensive when it fails.

You don't know anything about the table when you first sit down.
Even if there's six regulars there you know well, you can't tell
how people are feeling and running tonight, though if someone
is sitting behind a $1600 stack it's obvious they're running well.

Rushing and overplaying your hands is a mistake in any kind
of Poker and it's worse in Omaha because
(a) you can hit a good looking flop and still be miles behind
(b) your whole stack gets committed so quickly and easily
(c) If you'd just wait a few more hands you'll get dealt a much
    better starting hand which you can play strongly
(d) you're not going to bluff anyone off this early in your session.

So breathe in. Look around the table, get a feel for how the game
is going. See what patterns you can see preflop for the first
few hands; are there five players paying $10 for a flop, are
their some step raisers, are there deadstack nothreats? You can't
amswer any of those questions having just sat down but you should
know the answer to all of them after ten minutes.

There's a great saying in Test Match Cricket that "A batting team
can't win a Test by lunch on Day One, but they can lose one". If
your openers blaze away and they're 1/135 at lunch that's a great
start but still only a solid foundation for a great first day.
But if nobody knuckles down and you're 7/63 at lunch, you'll
lose this Test no matter what happense from here.

Depending on your arrival time, you might have a long wait
before you finally get your Omaha seat. You need to work
harder than ever to breathe in when you've endured a long wait
to get your poker fix.
