SHORTSTACKING AND THE ROLF SEAT

Last updated: 20190127

A Beginner's Strategy for NLH Cash
----------------------------------
Say you've got a friend who has played some NLH Tournaments
at the Pub/Club level and now wants to try NLH Cash at the Casino.
What kind of playing advice do you give him? You'd suggest that he
  - buys in for the minimum $100 at the $2/$3 game
  - waits for pocket pairs and high suited cards
  - raises with these big cards preflop to thin the field and make
    for easier postflop decisions
  - set mines with 55-88, raise/call with 99-JJ, bet/raise with QQ,KK,AA,AK
  - set mines with 22-44 if in late position in a limped pot
  - cash out and leave if he can get his stack above $300.

Poker is easier with a short stack; you wait for a situation that
you expect to have good showdown winnability and get your money in.
Your stack is too small to be able to run bluffs, but you can't
lose a big amount of money in a single hand because you don't
have that much money in your stack to begin with.

Playing a big stack means that you have a lot more money at risk
on any one hand, so cashing out as your stack gets big can be
great advice for new players who don't yet have big stack experience.
Tournament players play a lot of poker where their stack is 15-40 Big Bets,
Cash players often have 100 Big Bets or more, which you don't want to
commit to a pot unless you have a powerful hand.

In Online Poker you can change tables instantly and conveniently and
also play multiple tables at once. In Live Poker, cashing out normally
means you're done for the day, unless you can transfer to a different
table and cash down and pocket some of your profits that way.

There's a few poker books suggesting the beginning players
strategy, one of the best is "Getting Started in Hold'em" by Ed Miller.
As your friend gains more experience and poker feel he will add low
pairs and speculative hands like connectors and one gappers. He will
make bigger buyins and use more positional awareness.

The PLO Shortstacking approach
------------------------------

A similar approach is possible in PLO, but it's actually a sophisticated
approach that many experienced players use. It's called "Shortstacking"
because it involves buyin in for a pretty small stack, relative to the
other players and the maximum allowed buyin. Here's the essence of
how you play the shortstacking approach with $1/$3 blinds:
  - buy in for the minimum or a bit more ($100-$175)
  - sit to the right of the most aggressive preflop player (the "Rolf Seat")
  - look to limp-raise or check-raise him with all your strong hands.
  - limp/call with hands with good potential if your call isn't too
    expensive and your call closes the action
  - cash out and leave if you can get your stack above $400

The seat you get (if it becomes available) is called the Rolf Seat,
after Rolf Slotboom who developed this style of play for his
own game. Moving to the Rolf Seat is the only time that I advise
changing seats at a table for strategic purposes. For real-life
reasons I advise changing seats away from Seat 1 or Seat 9,
which both have bad visibility of the other players. In Seat 1
your holding is close to the mucked cards and you're at
frequent risk of the dealer accidentally mucking your cards.
You have to protect your holding with a card protector or chips on
top, which is just one extra bit of physical hassle compared to
the other seats. It's hard to be sure just when your big blind is coming.
Seat 1 is just a physically bad place to sit on a poker table. Just
about the only good thing I can say about Seat 1 is you don't have
to stretch your arms as far to put your bets in.

You should be able to identify quickly the most aggressive preflop player,
he will be noticed and commented on and resented by the other players
at the table, many of whom would like a lot more $3 each family pots.

The Rolf Seat
-------------

The Rolf Seat is on the wrong side to what Holdem players expect. In
Holdem you want to be acting just after the aggressive player, so you can
re-raise to isolate him and get one-on-one with him when you've got
position on him. In Pot Limit you normally can't raise big enough to
get everyone else out pre-flop this way; so you have to limp-reraise
after a field of callers so that your raise is big enough to blast
other players out. This is similar to the "Sandwich Play" in No Limit
Tournaments, except it's not a bluff, you expect to be called
by the Most Aggressive Player and have to hold up against him
at Showdown.

If you don't have a raising hand, your Rolf Seat position will let
you call the Aggressive Player's raise and close the action, if there
have been no other raises. Sometimes you'll limp your $3, the aggressive
player will make it $15 and a further player will make it $55; this makes
for a very easy fold for you and you don't lose sleep over good folds
that cost you just $3.

So being in the Rolf Seat purifies your pre-flop game; you improve
your chances of getting heads up with your strong hands, and you
often close the action on hands you'd like to see a flop with. You
have great relative position on the aggressive player, it's like you've
got the button preflop every hand. Just by being in the Rolf Seat, you
play a better Preflop game.

Limp-raising preflop is how a lot of people play pocket Kings under-the-gun in
Texas. You limp, hope for a raise and a few callers, and when action
returns to you, you come over the top and win the pot outright as it
is or get heads up with some bonus money in the pot from the callers.
With No Limit betting, you can usually size the bet to get the outcome
that you want. Sometimes your limp isn't raised and there's four
limpers after you and you end up in a five-way pot. That's not a good
result and you have to slow down unless a King flops.

Protection
----------

You know in Tournament No Limit Holdem where someone is all-in preflop
for not much and there's three callers and all those callers check
the flop, check the turn and check the river, to maximise the chance
the all-in player gets busted by one of them? That doesn't happen
in cash games and it happens even less in PLO cash games. Busting
players isn't important in cash (the busted player can simply rebuy)
the most important thing is fighting over the real cash money
that's already in this pot and each other's stacks. So an all-in player (which
a shortstacker will frequently be either preflop or on the flop) is often
given protection by a bigger stack who jams the flop and forces
out other players who would've ended up an unlikely winner had they
stayed in. Meanwhile the all-in shortstacker wins his main pot
with a two-pair or a set that the jammer loses to.

This doesn't happen all the time of course, often the deepstack
jammer scoops every side pot and the main pot with a
monster hand. But the protection does save the
shortstack all-in player often enough for it to be a
noticeable part of the shortstack's advantage. Plus,
even when the shortstack player does lose, it's only
cost him the amount of his short stack. It's not a crushing
$450 loss of a big stack, it's an annoying loss of a $120
short stack.

Protection means that the shortstacker is playing for a pot
that's larger than the money he's had to put in, relative
to the number of players he has to beat. He could be all in
for $30 into a $120 pot, but only has to beat 2 other players
(a third $30 caller has since been blasted off because of further
jamming by the still-active players). In extreme cases an all-in
player could be getting 6 to 1 on his money and only have
to beat a single still-live player heads-up. That's an excellent result
for the shortstacker.

Deadstack Nothreats
-------------------
Just because a player is making min buyin after min buyin doesn't
mean that's he's using or understanding the Shortstacking approach.
He could simply be running bad and doesn't want to lose
big buyin after big buyin, he'll take four more $100 shots
and if none of them work he's done for the night. Playing this
way instead of trying two $200 shorts or a $300 shot followed
by a $100 shot is smart money management and maximises the
number of buyins that can come good.

I've seen a lot of passive players make these min buyins and
some of them call preflop bets to $10, $20 or $40 and they're
wasting at least one fifth of their stack each time. These guys
are like passive tournament players who let their stack get
too small before taking a stand, I call them deadstack nothreats.

Players without PLO experience who are trying it for the first few
times are often Deadstack Nothreats.

Deadstack Nothreats are like Calling Stations in NLH. When they do
put in their rare bets and raises, they usually have great strength
and you should get out of the way unless you have some good Nut draws.
Although the Deadstack Nothreats are usually all-in for a tiny amount,
relative to the pot, and you're getting great pot odds to call with
just about any kind of draw, and it doesn't hurt you too much if
you call and lose. A $20 to $40 call into a $200 pot is giving you
great odds to try and beat the Deadstack Nothreat.
