SHOWDOWNS

Last updated: 20200602

Showdowns are a lot different in Omaha than they are in Holdem and
some words on Omaha showdowns are necessary in this book.

In Holdem it's pretty quick to see that the winning player has the
hand that beats you. He doesn't have to call his hand (cards speak),
he just has to show you both of his cards and you can see that yes, he
had the flush, or yes he has you outkicked. There's a few tricky ones
like AJ on an A77T34 board where it's worth being entirely sure that
the kicker plays (here it does, he's playing A77JT) but normally when
you call and see that the other player has you beat, you can fold your
losing hand unshown.

In Holdem the main showdown sin is slowrolling. The called player shows
what looks like the winner; the calling player says "nice hand, you win"
takes his time showing his cards...holds onto them... looks disappointed..
and then finally shows an even better hand that takes the pot. This poor
behaviour is designed to intensify the pain of losing the pot to the loser,
who has thought for a few seconds that he's the winner.

The next Holdem showdown sin is slowcalling. You bet all-in on the river,
a player thinks about it for half a minute and seems to be agonising over
what your hand might be, he wastes thirty seconds of playing time and
then calls with the absolute nuts or a very strong hand that was always
calling just on hand strength alone. In a cash game this needless
stalling is an annoying waste of time, in a Tournament it's unforgiveable
because a minute of your current level has just been wasted and you'll get
at least one less hand at this level before blinds go up again.

Slowcalling is just as bad as slowrolling. I've seen a few bad hands
like this on YouTube. In one hand Mike Matusow bets all in with JJ on
a turnboard of T554 and Shaun Deeb agonises over calling with 55.

Sometimes a slow caller gets justice, and the poker gods deal him a
well deserved bad beat. In the 2016 Aussie Millions Main Event a
player named Mikel Habb slowcalls all-in preflop with KK against Sam
Abernathy's 66, the six waited until the river to deliver Karma.
In another tournament, the Irish Open, Irish legend Donnacha O'Dea
goes all in with A6 on an all-diamond flop of A86; and a player with
the nuts of KQ diamonds wastes time and dignity in taking ages to call
with the Nuts. Again a Six on the river delivers the proper Karma.

A third showdown sin in Holdem is information asking. The called player
has to show first. Sometimes he asks the caller all kinds of things
about his hand "Do you have the flush? Can you beat two pair??" as if
inviting the caller to show _his_ hand first. I've seen called players
do this even though they hold the unbeatable Nuts.. they'll say
"Do you have the flush?" and you show a Queen high flush and think you're
the winner and they _still_ show the Ace high flush to you.

Poker is an Information War and the called player at Showdown has no right
to information on the caller's hand. If the caller loses, he has the
right to fold face down and surrender the pot. If the caller wins, he
must reveal his own hand and show he has a higher poker hand.

It sounds simple (and it is) but poker players worldwide just have to
behave stupidly at showdown and do all kinds of Showdown Shenanigans.
It's so annoying, it's getting my temperature up just writing about it
here, but it's a part of poker and you need to deal with it. And just like
Omaha is much more complex than Holdem, Omaha showdowns are much more complex
than Holdem and there's some crazy showdown behaviour unique to Omaha.

Tworolling
----------

Tworolling is the act of not showing all of your cards at the showdown,
just the two that you're using.

This happens a little bit in Holdem as well (it's one-rolling in Holdem)
There's a four flush on the board, a player gets called and he shows
just one of his cards, the flush card winner. He has to show both of
his cards at showdown, the calling player has the right to see both of
his hole cards. Some strict games will consider a one card show
followed by a muck to be a fold and will award the pot to the calling
player; most dealers and supervisors will give a warning to the
one-card shower and not let him do it again that session.

In Omaha, the called player has to show his four card holding, and if
he's got an obvious winner it's polite for him to call his hand and show
which two cards he's using for his showdown hand. Poker being the
Information War, some called players like to show just the two cards they're
using and keep their other two cards private.

At Star, it works like this. Play is now stalled, and the called player
hopes that the calling player will also show. If the calling player wants
to see the called player's hand, the _calling_ player now has to reveal
his four cards. If, and only if, he does that, the called player will
now reveal the rest of his hand and now he has correctly shown down a hand
and can claim the pot.
 
I'll list the procedure as it should work, and how, sadly it often works

How it should work:
1) Nutster bets
2) Station calls
3) Nutster shows all four of his cards, revealing the Nut flush
4) Station folds, unseen. Nutster wins the pot.

How it often works:
1) Nutster bets
2) Station calls
3) Nutster shows two suited cards to the Ace, revealing he has a nut flush.
   Nutster hasn't shown his whole hand yet, but everyone at the table can
   see that Nutster has the Nuts and will win the pot. If Station wants
   to see the other two cards in Nutster's hand, Station has to reveal his
   hand as well.
4a) If Station folds, Nutster wins the pot without having to reveal his other
   two cards. Anyone who wants to know what kinds of hands Nutster enters
   the pot with or whether he had straight draws or a high pair along with
   his suited cards, is left none the wiser. You want to know in Omaha
   the kinds of hand Nutster had, especially if his winning hand that
   he two-rolled with was a strange backdoor hand like runner-runner
   Flush. Did his full four-card holding include a set and he backed
   into the flush? Did he have a straight wrap or two pair with his
   other two cards? If you don't get to see the full four cards, you
   never know.
4b) If Station reveals his four-card holding, Nutster will now show his other
   two cards and win with his unbeatable Nut flush. Nutster has got to
   see Station's holding as well; even though he was the called player.

Years ago in 2006 I played the Australian poker game 3-Card Manila in
a backroom joint in Brookvale, at pretty high stakes. 3-Card Manila is
like Omaha in that you have to use exactly two of your hole cards with
three from the board to make your best poker hand. In this backroom
club, cards didn't speak and you had to show which of the two-cards
you were using at showdown, at the same time as showing all three of
your hole cards. If you chose the wrong two cards and ended up playing
a worse poker hand than you could have, tough. I saw a guy split a pot
with a straight when he could've had the whole pot to himself by
playing a full house instead. This is the kind of punishment that I
wish happened to two-rollers everywhere.

Wrongrolling
------------

Wrongrolling is the act of showing two of your hole cards first, but not
the best two cards that you'll be using for your best hand. Again it's
to trick the Station into thinking he'll win the pot, and sometimes to
trick the caller into showing his (worse) hand before the called
player reveals the rest of his cards and shows he has a much stronger
hand.

Here's a wrong-roll from May 2020 that really got me riled. I've got
A753 on a J74 flop. A very tight player called Frank bets the pot and
I call. Frank is so tight that he's got top two pair or a set here.
The turn comes an Ace and while not the best card for me
(straight-making 6 is better) I could now be in the lead with Aces up,
AA77. The river is a 2 and on the finalboard J74A2 I call Frank's
all-in.

He shows J7. Great he did have the two pair and my better two pair
outdrew him on the turn. Half a second after I celebrate this he
shows a third card, another Jack. He didn't flop just two-pair, he
flopped top set. And then he wrongrolled me. He's a dickhead, and I
called him a worse name than that at the table. Wrongrolling seems to
be his only bad showdown habit (he doesn't slowroll, or slowcall and
his wrongroll wasn't a tworoll waiting for me to also show my hand)
but he wrongrolls all the time.

Courtesy shows
--------------

If you win a pot uncontested and the hand didn't make showdown, you
can do whatever you like. You can two-roll, fold all four of your
cards facedown, show one card, show three cards, show the wrong two
cards, anything you can think of. There's no bad showdown behaviour
here, it's your pot already and there's no showdown. Here's a few I've
seen.

1) There's a paired flop of K88, someone bets and takes the pot on
the flop. He courtesy-shows a King and mucks his other three cards,
which aren't of much interest. I've also seen the pot-winner show
three cards but not the fourth (which you can tell from the betting
was an eight).

2) Someone bets on the turn on an unpaired board when the third spade
arrives. He takes the pot and courtesy shows a high spade. You don't
know if he had the spade flush or was running a blush bluff but you
know he could well have had the flush.

I sometimes have three spades here including the Ace and I'm
nut-peddling the Ace-high flush. When the uncontested pot is sent to
me, I courtesy show the other two flush cards, showing I had a
Jack-high flush but keeping to myself the information that I was in
fact even better than that this hand.
