SONGLIST

LAST UPDATED: 20180703

Years ago I had a CD published by a whiskey company, songs for your
poker night. I agreed with just one of their poker songs,
"The Gambler" by Kenny Rogers, which chooses itself on any poker 
songs playlist.  

That Wild Turkey Poker Nights CD had these eight songs on it.

1 	 Kenny Rogers 		The Gambler 	
2 	 The Living End 	Who's Gonna Save Us? 	
3 	 The Animals 		The House Of The Rising Sun 	
4 	 Jet 	 		Take It Or Leave It 	
5 	 Little River Band 	Playing To Win 	
6 	 Alex Lloyd 		Never Meant To Fail 	
7 	 James Reyne 		House Of Cards 	
8 	 Ram Jam 		Black Betty

I've got a different LRB song in my Top 10; and it's not even
"Lonesome Loser" which is also card-themed ("beaten by the
Queen of Hearts every time"). It seems that this middle-of-the-road
easy-listening group fronted at different times by
John Farnham and Glenn Shorrock are the Aussie kings of gambling songs.

1) Lido Shuffle by Boz Scaggs

This song is about a gambling rush, a gambler thinking
he can beat the game and running away from his wife who sends
him a note telling him to tow the line and get back home, which
he ignores as his rush continues.

2) Sing Hallelujah by Dr Alban

The backing chorus sing the two words "Sing it!" excitedly which
sounds a lot like "Send it". This song is around in extended
mixes, the longer the better.

3) Nothing left to lose by The Alan Parsons Project

A remarkably upbeat and cheery song about a busted gambler.
This song is at the contained in the middle of the remarkable 
"Turn of a Friendly Card" 16-minute suite, which is the best
thing I've found to listen to after a big loss. "But the game
never ends, when your whole life depends, on the turn of a
friendly card".

4) Still the Same by Bob Seger

This song nicely captures the stasis of the regular gambler's
life. He's chugging along, he's still the same.
Bob Seger seems the patron saint of gambling songs, another of
his songs is "Ramblin' Gamblin Man". You'd know his big hit
"Old time Rock and Roll" from the early Tom Cruise film
"Risky Business".

5) You Know My Name by Chris Connell

Theme to the first Daniel Craig James Bond movie, "Casino Royale".
A sensational song, good to watch on YouTube with the beautiful
colourful title credits, where people are killed by bullets made
of hearts, clubs, diamonds and spades and finishing with the
first sight in colour of the new Blue-eyed Bond.

An interesting theory I saw online is that this song is sung
from the viewpoint of M. Bond might not like the price he has
to pay as a Double-Oh agent, he's just next in line and he can
be easily replaced.

6) Viva Las Vegas by Elvis Presley

Catchy upbeat number from the 1950s King of Rock n Roll.
Poker is mentioned in the song. Covered by ZZ Top
in the 1980s.

7) Home on a Monday by Little River Band

A man calls his wife from the Las Vegas Hilton to tell her
he won't be home for another day and does it so sweetly that
you can't imagine the lady begrudging him extra time in Sin City.

8) (Are you gonna) Stay the Night by Zedd featuring Hayley Williams

This is obviously a date song by a young lady inviting her boyfriend
to stick around for some action. When you're playing poker overnight and
stuck a few buyins, the answer to the repeated question in the
chorus: "Are you gonna stay the night?" is "Of course I'm gonna
stay here the whole night!!!"

Another song with nothing to do about Poker that I once heard
in the casino is "One more river" by James Reyne. I was slinking
out having just been bad beated and I dearly wished there'd
been one more river in my final hand, well certainly a different
river to the one I suffered.

9) Take the Money and Run by The Steve Miller Band

Sound advice if you're well up in your cash session and you think
it could be a good idea to cash out. It probably is. Go on, take
the money and run.

10) The Winner by Badfinger

Badfinger were the most successful band signed to the Beatles
label, Apple Records. The chorus has a better version of
"Winner, winner, chicken dinner"; it says "here he comes,
that's a winner, here he comes, take a look, write a book,
you can eat him up for dinner". Pure poetry.
