TILT

Poker players go on tilt and play badly. PLO tilt looks a bit different
to Texas Tilt and we'll look at that in this chapter.

Overplaying hands
-----------------

In NLH you can sometimes recover money by overplaying hands and
getting lucky. You raise big with J7 off, get a single caller, and
shove on a Jack-high flop. Your caller snaps with pocket Queens but
you get a miracle river and you double up. It happens, in No Limit
Holdem. It happens a lot less in Pot Limit Omaha because

- Pot limit betting and good-looking holdings mean there will be
  four or more players taking a flop. If you don't connect strongly
  with the flop, chances are someone else sure did. And you have to
  connect a lot more strongly than flopping top pair or middle pair.

- Because nut hands and nut draws are often out there in PLO, naked
  aggression can't win you pots. You're just giving your money away to
  the player who already has the best hand.

- Even though the other players can see you're on tilt, they still won't
  give you big action without a superstrong hand or draw themselves. In
  NLH you might get a guy with 66 taking a stand on a J74 flop because he
  can see you're on tilt and his sixes might be good; in Omaha you only
  get big action from hands that have you crushed. You can bluff-win a
  small pot here and there but if you get big action and the pot gets big,
  you're toast.

Looser starting requirements
----------------------------

When you're on tilt in NLH you find yourself playing hands you shouldn't;
you've loosened your starting holding requirements. Jack-Seven is a great
example of a hand that should hit the muck as soon as you see it, but looks
like a daring exciting hand when you're on tilt.

The same effect happens in PLO. You find yourself hoping that your non-nut
hands (Queen-high flushes, 777 middle sets and 6433 third nut straights on
a T8752 board) are good, but when they're not, you're smoked and down another
buyin. If you weren't on tilt, you'd be saving your stack in these cases by
either

(A) Folding your iffy holding preflop and staying out of trouble
or
(B) Having a good enough poker sense to realise you're behind and lose the
minimum

Remember that iffy holdings make low confidence hands. When you're on tilt,
you push these hands for far more than they're really worth and you win
small pots when you're ahread and lose your stack when you're behind.

When you're playing loose in PLO you find yourself on the bad end of
Nut versus Third Nut confrontations. It's a recipe for disaster. The best
thing to do when on tilt in PLO is call it a night and leave. The next best
thing to do is leave the table and take a walk for five minutes, try to
regain your composure and when you return to the table, tighten up.
