TROUBLE HANDS

Last updated: 20190108

TV journalist: "Robo.. excuse me.. Robo.. any special
  message for all the kids watching at home?"
Robocop: "Stay out of trouble".
 -- "Robocop" (directed Paul Verhoeven) 1987

Before we look at the hands you should play in Omaha, I'll
warn you about some stack-killing hands you'd do well to avoid.

These are holdings I call "Trouble Hands", some of the
other poker literature calls them "Sucker hands". In Texas Holdem
these are high but not high enough holdings like A9, KT, QJ.

When they flop top pair in a raised pot, making top pair
decent kicker, they're often a long way behind top pair better
kicker. So even when they flop decently they're Low Confidence
Hands. They can't be bet strongly (which means they win small when
they're ahead) and they're OK-enough to call with (which means they
lose more when they're behind). They're too weak to bet, and too strong
to fold. So they win small, lose big. This is the opposite of the
Number One rule of gambling: Win big, lose small. So if you're dealt a
Trouble Holding, you can save yourself money and some tough decisions
by just folding it preflop. TAHITM.

You might tell yourself "I'll flop two pair with this Queen-Jack
and win the stack of the raiser who might have Ace-Queen or
Ace-Jack" but that doesn't happen often enough to make up
for all the times that you flop a single pair and get yourself
into real trouble. You only flop two pair about 5 percent of the time;
which is about two-and-a-half times worse than your chances of flopping
a set when you've got a pocket pair. Calling a raise with Queen-Jack
in Holdem gets you into trouble.

In PLO the trouble holdings are pocket pairs like 66,55,44,33,22;
low straight connectors like 5432 and non-nut suited cards like
Jack-high hearts, Queen-high spades and so on. These hands are
seductive because you miss most flops and get an easy fold for
a tiny loss; maybe you've called $10 preflop and whiffed. Your
stack goes from $220 to $210. No big loss. Where the real problem
lies is when you hit a good flop and get your stack in and you're
behind, even drawing dead, to a much better hand and you lose
your whole stack.

You flop bottom set and lose your stack to middle set. You play 6332,
get a 754 flop and lose your stack to T986. Your stack goes
from $220 to Zero. Now you see the problem.

In Holdem the trouble hands normally lose on kicker; in Omaha
the troble hands lose to same-rung hands of higher rank.

Low two pair lose to higher two pair.
Low sets lose to medium sets lose to high sets.
Low straights lose to medium straights lose to high straights.
Low flushes lose to medium flushes lose to nut flushes.

Because all the other players have four cards as well, and because
there's lots of other players taking the flop, the bigger and
better hands that beat you are often out there, just waiting to
take your stack.

The Deuce is a poison card in any holding. No good
PLO holdings contain a Deuce. The only good Deuce is suited to an Ace
and even then you wish it was a different rank, still suited to the Ace.
In the holding AhJT2h that Deuce of Hearts means you're now a nut flush
chance in Hearts but it'd be so much better if that 2h was the Jh, Th, or 9h.
A pair of Deuces is no good because the only set it flops is
bottom set, which is a Low Confidence Hand and a Stack Killer.

The Trey is less poison than the Deuce, but it's still pretty toxic.
It plays OK in the bottom straight gap rundown hands like 7653 or
the bottom pair of 5433. You need very specific cards to flop, so
these hands are very speculative and will be folded to most flops,
but if you get exactly the right flop you can get a hand you can
go to war with. Most of the time a Trey in your holding will be
a dangler. You really won't go wrong folding any holding with a 3
in it apart from 7653 and 5433. And you don't have to play those
holdings either.

Pocket 55 is the smallest pocket pair I can remember flopping
the Overfull with. On a flop of 544 I won lots from two players
who both had a four, and probably thought I had a straight draw
chance like 567 and not the flopped overfull that I had.

After you've played a lot of PLO, you develop an almost mystical
relationship with the pocket pairs and the sets they generate.
It's superstitious based on what pairs have been good to you and
which haven't. Personally I find QQ sets better than KK sets.
44 seems to have made Quads for me more than any other
pair, and it's nice at showdown to say "four fours".

Bottom set needs to Quad
------------------------

Bob Ciaffone shows a hand where a player with bottom set
on the turnboard, currently ahead, can't win unless
exactly his quad card comes on the river. And there's only
four players in this hand! The other hands are top three pair
(so other repeaters Luckboat them), a flush draws in two suits and
big straight wraps. The hands are:

AK22
JT87h
AsJs5c3c
Q97d4

and the turnboard is

Qc9c2s4s

The JT87 wrap   wins if the river is a red K,J,T or 8.
The A53x wrap   wins if the river is a red 6,5,3 or A
The Q94x 2 pair wins if the river is a    Q, 9 or 4
The AJ53 spade/club draw wins if the river is black
  and doesn't pair the board. This includes
  both remaining sevens. (it must be 7s or 7c)
The AK22 bottom set wins if (and only if) the river
  is the case 2.

I simplified Ciaffone's example slightly by putting both
the spade and club draw in the same holding. The real lesson
to take to heart from this example is that bottom set is
often smoked; if it isn't already behind to a better set
it could be fading a deck of outs on the river. In this
example, the entire deck. Every river card besides the case
deuce is a loser.

Since you know in advance that low sets can be stack killers
in Omaha, why even play low pocket pairs preflop? Wait for better
hands and don't give your stack away when you flop
a losing set.

DOCTOR STRAIGHT FACT: I regularly win the stacks of
players who flop the 222 bottom set, when I've got top set.
Normally my top set is in the 99,TT,JJ,QQ range. Here
are some of my favourite flops: Q92, J72, T52, 942. It's
great having the bottom sets in the pot with me because
they normally raise pot on the flop and force flush draws
and straight draws to fold. This leaves me heads up with
my top set as a 96% favourite or sometimes a 100% favourite.
It doesn't get any better than that.

ACTUAL HAND: I really need to follow my own advice more. I played
J822 and got a 542 flop. I got all in on the flop in some big three-way
action. The other hands were T744 and A355, who had the wheel and the top
set. T744 sucked out in this hand by hitting runner-runner
flush, I committed $200 with only one out.

Hands get outdrawn
==================

Hands get outdrawn so much more in PLO than NLH. The best PLO
holdings have potential to hit the best hand on the flop with
redraws to higher-rung hands on the turn and river. When these
hands hit the right flop, you can bet and raise big with them,
and these are the hands that win enormous pots when players
with dominated (and losing) made hands call and give you all
their chips. From the viewpoint of the loser he's just been
bad-beated but from your viewpoint you had the boss hand the
whole way and you've played it right by betting it big and
now you're stacking up a really big pot.

Stacksavers
===========

A Stacksaver is a judicious preflop fold of a holding that
flops well, looks like a winner, and still ends up losing.
Because you had the discipline to fold your holding preflop
and ditch your trouble hand, you get to keep your stack.

I once folded K642, saw a frustrating flop of 644 and on the runout
of 644JJ someone holding QQJ6 won with the best full house.
I didn't have nearly enough chips in this hand to get anyone to
fold, so if I'd taken the flop I would've quickly got all in with
two callers and given away the rest of my stack.

Another stacksaver was 5444; a joke holding really with no real
set chances and only one, non-nut straight chance. Here the runout
was J32A8, but the turn completed a flush for the winner who
again couldn't have been forced out by betting from me on that flop.

K642 and 5554 were both pretty easy preflop folds, the great thing
in these two instances is that they were stacksaving folds. The fold
didn't save me $3, $10 or $15, the fold saved me my stack of $170.
That's a sensational result. The holdings had no Nuttability, they
were exactly the kind of trouble holdings that even when they flopped
just as well as I could possibly expect, still lost to proper Omaha hands.
