WHY PLAY PLO?

Updated: 20180710

Why would you play Pot Limit Omaha? Many poker players
stick exclusively to No Limit Holdem, cash and tournaments, and
do very well for themselves in that format. We'll be looking
at differences between NLH and PLO throughtout this book.

To give you a taste, here are some differences
between The Star's 1/3 PLO game and their 2/3 NLH game.

In 1/3 PLO:
- Buyin is from $100-$300
- The pots are bigger. More players take a flop.
- The shown down winning hand is often the Nuts
- The game is less well understood
- There are fewer learning resources and they're harder to find
- You play against regular players
- You can win a lot more in a short session
- You can do a lot more with a $100 stack
- There are sometimes shorter waiting lists, although in the dead
  hours of the morning sometimes there's no game going.
- You can see more flops. You don't have to be as patient.
- The deals take longer. Also since 4 cards are dealt to each player
  there's a lot more accidentally exposed cards in the deal that you know
  are now out of play.
- There's less bluffing and less hero-calling.

In 2/3 NLH:
- You're playing the same format that's used in most Tournament Poker
- You sometimes play against absolute poker beginners
- Showdown hands are much weaker than Omaha. Many hands are won with
  top pair, good kicker.
- You can protect a strong hand preflop with an all-in bet, winning
  the pot right there or almost guaranteeing at most a heads-up pot
- You can overbet the pot
- Your good preflop hands hold up more
- Your flopped sets hold up more
- You're in the running for the "flop a Royal Flush" jackpot and 
  occasional other promotions. The Star haven't done a "Bad Beat Jackpot"
  like other casinos, but if they did, it would be in the Holdem games.
- There's always a game going, 24x7
- You can buyin for more money. You have a choice of a buyin between
  $100 - $500; an amount of basically 30 to 160 Big Blinds
- You can target a very bad player and get 1 on 1 with him in
  big pots.

PLO is the biggest game spread on The Star main floor; some games
have just a minimum buyin and no maximum! I've seen with my own
eyes a game with $200/$400 blinds and a minimum buyin of $40,000.
The biggest game I've played in is $5/$5/$10 with a buyin of
$300-$1500; but even playing in the 1/3 PLO game I feel like a Big
Time Poker Player, much more than I do when I'm playing 2/3 NLH.

1/3 PLO is actually a very big game, disguised as a nickel and dime game.
The buyin range is smaller than Holdem, but the Pots are bigger, by 
and large. There's action aplenty in Pot Limit Omaha.

If you're an NLH-only player at the moment, have a good read of my
list of 2/3 NLH advantages and then re-read my list of 1/3 PLO
advantages. Walk over to a 1/3 PLO table and watch a few 
hands - really watch them. How did the betting go? How strong
were the hands shown down to win the pot? What are the stack
sizes of the players? You'll probably find an interesting mix
of $75-$200 stacks and a few big winners with $600, $800 even
$1200+ stacks. With the help of this book and some work and
perseverence of your own, you can be one of those big winners.

You'll probably see a lot of main pot with several side
pot hands, compared to NLH. There's very little "checking it down"
by active players still competing hard for the big pots and still
building a big side pot. This can sometimes help an all-in player,
where an active player with a huge draw and a huge stack blasts
away another active player, and the all-in player's marginal
hand holds up when the active player's draw misses and the 
blasted-off player would've won. This concept is called
Protection and you see it in Tournament Holdem a bit.

PLO is not a trapping game like NLH is. Because there's so many
cards dealt, and everyone has a 4 card holding, there's
a whole lot of card combinations out there just
waiting to outdraw you. If you try to trap, and give a free
card, you'll get outdrawn over and over again.
In PLO when you flop top set on a flop of JT5 two diamonds 
it's usually the case that someone has the flush draw, 
someone else has a good straight draw (with more
than just the 8 outs you get in a Holdem Open-Ended Straight draw)
and someone could have a higher pair that could become
a better set.

In Holdem you have to trap because there's usually not many people
in the pot by the flop and if you come out betting your strong hands
you'll scare everyone out and end up winning a small pot.
In Omaha you come out blasting with pot-sized bets and
you'll often get action and callers. I'll be looking a lot
at when it's correct to bet and correct to call, but for now
let me impress upon you that in PLO when
you flop strong you don't trap, you come out blasting. You have 
to do this yourself, Do Your Own Betting (DYOB). 
